<<<<<<< HEAD
abase	to reduce or lower, as in rank, office, reputation, or estimation; humble; degrade.	verb (used with object)	8	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
abash	to destroy the self-confidence, poise, or self-possession of; disconcert; make ashamed or embarrassed	verb (used with object)	10	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
abate	to reduce in amount, degree, intensity, etc.; lessen; diminish	verb (used with object)	8	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
abbreviate	to shorten (a word or phrase) by omitting letters, substituting shorter forms, etc., so that the shortened form can represent the whole word or phrase, as ft. for foot, ab. for about, R.I. for Rhode Island, NW for Northwest, or Xn for Christian.	verb (used with object)	20	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
abdicate	to renounce or relinquish a throne, right, power, claim, responsibility, or the like, especially in a formal manner	verb (used without object)	15	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
aberrant	departing from the right, normal, or usual course.	adjective	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
aberration	the act of departing from the right, normal, or usual course.	noun	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
abet	to encourage, support, or countenance by aid or approval, usually in wrongdoing	verb (used with object)	7	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
abeyance	temporary inactivity, cessation, or suspension	noun	17	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
abhor	to regard with extreme repugnance or aversion; detest utterly; loathe; abominate.	verb (used with object)	10	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
abide	to remain; continue; stay	verb (used without object)	9	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
abject	utterly hopeless, miserable, humiliating, or wretched	adjective	21	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
abjure	to renounce, repudiate, or retract, especially with formal solemnity; recant	verb (used with object)	19	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
ablution	a cleansing with water or other liquid, especially as a religious ritual.	noun	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
abnegate	to refuse or deny oneself (some rights, conveniences, etc.); reject; renounce.	verb (used with object)	14	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
abode	a place in which a person resides; residence; dwelling; habitation; home.	noun	9	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
abolish	to do away with; put an end to; annul; make void	verb (used with object)	13	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
abominable	repugnantly hateful; detestable; loathsome	adjective	21	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
abominate	to regard with intense aversion or loathing; abhor.	verb (used with object)	16	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
aboriginal	of, relating to, or typical of 	adjective	17	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
abortive	failing to succeed; unsuccessful	adjective	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
abrasive	any material or substance used for grinding, polishing, etc., as emery, pumice, or sandpaper.	noun	15	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
abridge	to shorten by omissions while retaining the basic contents	verb (used with object)	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
abrogate	to abolish by formal or official means; annul by an authoritative act; repeal	verb (used with object)	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
abscission	the act of cutting off; sudden termination.	noun	17	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
abscond	to depart in a sudden and secret manner, especially to avoid capture and legal prosecution	verb (used without object)	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
absolute	free from imperfection; complete; perfect	adjective	13	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
absolve	to free from guilt or blame or their consequences	verb (used with object)	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
abstain	to hold oneself back voluntarily, especially from something regarded as improper or unhealthy (usually followed by from)	verb (used without object)	11	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
abstemious	sparing or moderate in eating and drinking; temperate in diet.	adjective	17	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
abstinence	forbearance from any indulgence of appetite, especially from the use of alcoholic beverages	noun	18	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
abstract	thought of apart from concrete realities, specific objects, or actual instances	adjective	14	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
abstruse	hard to understand; recondite; esoteric	adjective	12	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
abusive	using, containing, or characterized by harshly or coarsely insulting language	adjective	15	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
abut	to be adjacent; touch or join at the edge or border (often followed by on, upon, or against)	verb (used without object)	8	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
abysmal	of or like an 	adjective	16	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
abyss	a deep, immeasurable space, gulf, or cavity; vast chasm.	noun	10	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
academic	of or relating to a college, 	adjective	18	11-All English speakers likely know this word
accede	to give consent, approval, or adherence; agree; assent; to accede to a request; to accede to the terms of a contract.	verb (used without object)	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
accelerate	to cause faster or greater activity, development, progress, advancement, etc., in	verb (used with object)	17	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
accessible	easy to approach, reach, enter, speak with, or use.	adjective	20	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
accessory	a subordinate or supplementary part, object, or the like, used mainly for convenience, attractiveness, safety, etc., as a spotlight on an automobile or a lens cover on a camera.	noun	17	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
acclaim	to welcome or salute with shouts or sounds of joy and approval; applaud	verb (used with object)	17	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
acclimate	to accustom or become accustomed to a new 	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	19	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
acclivity	an upward slope, as of ground; an ascent (opposed to 	noun	22	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
accolade	any award, honor, or laudatory notice	noun	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
accommodate	to do a kindness or a favor to; oblige	verb (used with object)	24	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
accomplice	a person who knowingly helps another in a crime or wrongdoing, often as a subordinate.	noun	26	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
accord	to be in agreement or harmony; agree.	verb (used without object)	13	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
accost	to confront boldly	verb (used with object)	12	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
accoutre		verb (used with object)	15	68-Few English speakers likely know this word
accretion	an increase by natural growth or by gradual external addition; growth in size or extent.	noun	16	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
accrue	to happen or result as a natural growth, addition, etc.	verb (used without object)	13	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
acerbity	sourness, with roughness or astringency of taste.	noun	16	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
acetic	pertaining to, derived from, or producing vinegar or 	adjective	12	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
acidulous	slightly sour.	adjective	16	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
acknowledge	to admit to be real or true; recognize the existence, truth, or fact of	verb (used with object)	26	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
acme	the highest point; summit; peak	noun	10	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
acne	an inflammatory disease of the sebaceous glands, characterized by comedones and pimples, especially on the face, back, and chest, and, in severe cases, by cysts and nodules resulting in scarring.	noun	8	10-All English speakers likely know this word
acoustics	(used with a singular verb) Physics. the branch of physics that deals with sound and sound waves.	noun	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
acquiesce	to assent tacitly; submit or comply silently or without protest; agree; consent	verb (used without object)	25	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
acquittal	the act of 	noun	23	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
acrid	sharp or biting to the taste or smell; bitterly pungent; irritating to the eyes, nose, etc.	adjective	9	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
acrimonious	caustic, stinging, or bitter in nature, speech, behavior, etc.	adjective	19	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
acrophobia	a pathological fear of heights.	noun	21	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
actuarial	Insurance. a person who computes premium rates, dividends, risks, etc., according to probabilities based on statistical records.	noun	14	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
actuary	Insurance. a person who computes premium rates, dividends, risks, etc., according to probabilities based on statistical records.	noun	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
actuate	to incite or move to action; impel; motivate	verb (used with object)	11	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
acuity	sharpness; acuteness; keenness	noun	12	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
acumen	keen insight; shrewdness	noun	14	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
acute	sharp or severe in effect; intense	adjective	9	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
adage	a traditional saying expressing a common experience or observation; proverb.	noun	8	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
adamant	utterly unyielding in attitude or opinion in spite of all appeals, urgings, etc.	adjective	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
adapt	to make suitable to requirements or conditions; adjust or modify fittingly	verb (used with object)	9	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
addendum	a thing to be added; an addition.	noun	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
addiction	the state of being enslaved to a habit or practice or to something that is psychologically or physically habit-forming, as narcotics, to such an extent that its cessation causes severe trauma.	noun	15	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
addle	to make or become confused.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	8	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
address	a speech or written statement, usually formal, directed to a particular group of persons	noun	9	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
adept	very skilled; proficient; expert	adjective	9	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
adhere	to stay attached; stick fast; cleave; cling (usually followed by to)	verb (used without object)	9	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
adherent	a person who follows or upholds a leader, cause, etc.; supporter; follower.	noun	12	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
adjacent	lying near, close, or contiguous; adjoining; neighboring	adjective	22	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
adjunct	something added to another thing but not essential to it.	noun	22	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
adjuration	an earnest request; entreaty.	noun	22	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
adjutant	Military. a staff officer who assists the commanding officer in issuing orders.	noun	20	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
admonish	to caution, advise, or counsel against something.	verb (used with object)	15	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
adorn	to decorate or add beauty to, as by ornaments	verb (used with object)	7	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
adroit	expert or nimble in the use of the hands or body.	adjective	7	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
adulate	to show excessive admiration or devotion to; flatter or admire servilely.	verb (used with object)	10	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
adulterate	to debase or make impure by adding inferior materials or elements; use cheaper, inferior, or less desirable goods in the production of (any professedly genuine article)	verb (used with object)	13	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
advent	a coming into place, view, or being; arrival	noun	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
adventitious	associated with something by chance rather than as an integral part; extrinsic.	adjective	19	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
adversary	a person, group, or force that opposes or attacks; opponent; enemy; foe.	noun	16	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
adverse	unfavorable or antagonistic in purpose or effect	adjective	12	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
adversity		noun	16	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
advert	to remark or comment; refer (usually followed by to)	verb (used without object)	11	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
advocacy	the act of pleading for, supporting, or recommending; active espousal	noun	21	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
advocate	to speak or write in favor of; support or urge by argument; recommend publicly	verb (used with object)	16	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
aegis	Classical Mythology. the shield or breastplate of Zeus or Athena, bearing at its center the head of the Gorgon.	noun	7	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
aerie	the nest of a bird of prey, as an eagle or a hawk.	noun	5	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
aesthetic	relating to the philosophy of 	adjective	14	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
affable	pleasantly easy to approach and to talk to; friendly; cordial; warmly polite	adjective	17	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
affected	acted upon; influenced.	adjective	18	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
affidavit	a written declaration upon oath made before an authorized official.	noun	20	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
affiliation	the act of 	noun	19	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
affinity	a natural liking for or attraction to a person, thing, idea, etc.	noun	17	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
affirmation	the act or an instance of 	noun	21	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
affliction	a state of pain, distress, or grief; misery	noun	21	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
affluence	abundance of money, property, and other material goods; riches; wealth.	noun	21	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
affront	a personally offensive act or word; deliberate act or display of disrespect; intentional slight; insult	noun	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
afterlife	Also called 	noun	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
agape	with the mouth wide open, as in wonder, surprise, or eagerness	adverb, adjective	10	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
agenda	a list, plan, outline, or the like, of things to be done, matters to be acted or voted upon, etc.	noun	10	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
agglomeration	a jumbled cluster or mass of varied parts.	noun	22	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
aggrandize	to widen in scope; increase in size or intensity; enlarge; extend.	verb (used with object)	25	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
aggregate	formed by the conjunction or collection of particulars into a whole mass or sum; total; combined	adjective	15	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
aghast	struck with overwhelming shock or amazement; filled with sudden fright or horror	adjective	10	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
agility	the power of moving quickly and easily; nimbleness	noun	12	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
agitate	to move or force into violent, irregular action	verb (used with object)	9	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
agnostic	a person who holds that the existence of the ultimate cause, as God, and the essential nature of things are unknown and unknowable, or that human knowledge is limited to experience.  Synonyms	noun	14	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
agog	highly excited by eagerness, curiosity, anticipation, etc.	adjective	8	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
agrarian	relating to land, land tenure, or the division of landed property	adjective	11	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
airy	open to a free current of fresh air; breezy	adjective	6	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
alacrity	cheerful readiness, promptness, or willingness	noun	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
alchemy	a form of chemistry and speculative philosophy practiced in the Middle Ages and the Renaissance and concerned principally with discovering methods for transmuting baser metals into gold and with finding a universal solvent and an elixir of life.	noun	18	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
alcove	a recess or small room adjacent to or opening out of a room	noun	14	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
alias	a false name used to conceal one's identity; an assumed name	noun	6	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
alienate	to make indifferent or hostile	verb (used with object)	10	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
alimentary	concerned with the function of nutrition; nutritive.	adjective	17	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
alimony	Law. an allowance paid to a person by that person's spouse or former spouse for maintenance, granted by a court upon a legal separation or a divorce or while action is pending.	noun	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
allay	to put (fear, doubt, suspicion, anger, etc.) to rest; calm; quiet.	verb (used with object)	9	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
allege	to assert without proof.	verb (used with object)	10	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
allegiance	the loyalty of a citizen to his or her government or of a subject to his or her sovereign.	noun	18	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
allegory	a representation of an abstract or spiritual meaning through concrete or material forms; figurative treatment of one subject under the guise of another.	noun	14	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
alleviate	to make easier to endure; lessen; mitigate	verb (used with object)	15	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
alliteration	the commencement of two or more stressed syllables of a word group either with the same consonant sound or sound group (consonantal alliteration) as in from stem to stern, or with a vowel sound that may differ from syllable to syllable (vocalic alliteration) as in each to all.  Compare  	noun	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
allocate	to set apart for a particular purpose; assign or allot	verb (used with object)	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
alloy	a substance composed of two or more metals, or of a metal or metals with a nonmetal, intimately mixed, as by fusion or electrodeposition.	noun	9	4-All English speakers likely know this word
allude	to refer casually or indirectly; make an 	verb (used without object)	10	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
allure	to attract or tempt by something flattering or desirable.	verb (used with object)	9	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
alluvial	of or relating to 	adjective	16	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
alms	money, food, or other donations given to the poor or needy; anything given as charity	noun	8	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
aloft	high up; far above the ground.	adverb	9	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
aloof	at a distance, especially in feeling or interest; apart	adverb	9	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
altercation	a heated or angry dispute; noisy argument or controversy.	noun	16	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
altruistic	unselfishly concerned for or devoted to the welfare of others (opposed to 	adjective	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
amalgam	an alloy of mercury with another metal or metals.	noun	16	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
amalgamate	to mix or merge so as to make a combination; blend; unite; combine	verb (used with object)	19	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
amass	to gather for oneself; collect as one's own	verb (used with object)	8	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
amazon	a river in N South America, flowing E from the Peruvian Andes through N Brazil to the Atlantic Ocean	noun	19	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
ambidextrous	able to use both hands equally well	adjective	27	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
ambience		noun	18	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
ambiguous	open to or having several possible meanings or interpretations; equivocal	adjective	19	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
ambivalence	uncertainty or fluctuation, especially when caused by inability to make a choice or by a simultaneous desire to say or do two opposite or conflicting things.	noun	26	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
amble	to go at a slow, easy pace; stroll; saunter	verb (used without object)	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
ambrosia	Classical Mythology. the food of the gods.  Compare  	noun	14	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
ambulatory	of, relating to, or capable of walking	adjective	20	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
ambush	an act or instance of lying concealed so as to attack by surprise	noun	15	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
ameliorate	to make or become better, more bearable, or more satisfactory; improve	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	14	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
amenable	ready or willing to answer, act, agree, or yield; open to influence, persuasion, or advice; agreeable; submissive; tractable	adjective	16	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
amend	to alter, modify, rephrase, or add to or subtract from (a motion, bill, constitution, etc.) by formal procedure	verb (used with object)	10	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
amenities	an agreeable way or manner; courtesy; civility	noun	13	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
amiable	having or showing pleasant, good-natured personal qualities; affable	adjective	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
amicable	characterized by or showing goodwill; friendly; peaceable	adjective	18	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
amiss	out of the right or proper course, order, or condition; improperly; wrongly; astray	adverb	8	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
amity	friendship; peaceful harmony.	noun	10	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
amnesia	loss of a large block of interrelated memories; complete or partial loss of memory caused by brain injury, shock, etc.	noun	11	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
amnesty	a general pardon for offenses, especially political offenses, against a government, often granted before any trial or conviction.	noun	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
amuck	mad with murderous frenzy.	adjective	16	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
amoral	not involving questions of right or wrong; without 	adjective	10	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
amorous	inclined or disposed to love, especially sexual love	adjective	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
amorphous	lacking definite form; having no specific shape; formless	adjective	18	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
amphibian	any cold-blooded vertebrate of the class Amphibia, comprising frogs and toads, newts and salamanders, and caecilians, the larvae being typically aquatic, breathing by gills, and the adults being typically semiterrestrial, breathing by lungs and through the moist, glandular skin.	noun	21	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
amphitheater	an oval or round building with tiers of seats around a central open area, as those used in ancient Rome for gladiatorial contests.	noun	22	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
ample	fully sufficient or more than adequate for the purpose or needs; plentiful; enough	adjective	12	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
amplify	to make larger, greater, or stronger; enlarge; extend.	verb (used with object)	19	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
amputate	to cut off (all or part of a limb or digit of the body), as by surgery.	verb (used with object)	15	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
amulet	a small object worn to ward off evil, harm, or illness or to bring good fortune; protecting charm.	noun	11	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
anachronism	something or someone that is not in its correct historical or chronological time, especially a thing or person that belongs to an earlier time	noun	21	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
analgesia	absence of sense of pain.	noun	13	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
analgesic	a remedy that relieves or allays pain.	noun	16	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
analogous	having 	adjective	14	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
analogy	a similarity between like features of two things, on which a comparison may be based	noun	13	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
anarchist	a person who advocates or believes in 	noun	15	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
anarchy	a state of society without government or law.	noun	15	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
anathema	a person or thing detested or loathed	noun	14	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
ancestry	family or 	noun	14	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
anchor	any of various devices dropped by a chain, cable, or rope to the bottom of a body of water for preventing or restricting the motion of a vessel or other floating object, typically having broad, hooklike arms that bury themselves in the bottom to provide a firm hold.	noun	12	11-All English speakers likely know this word
ancillary	subordinate; subsidiary.	adjective	17	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
anecdote	a short account of a particular incident or event, especially of an interesting or amusing nature.	noun	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
anemia	Pathology. a quantitative deficiency of the hemoglobin, often accompanied by a reduced number of red blood cells and causing pallor, weakness, and breathlessness.	noun	10	9-All English speakers likely know this word
anesthetic	a substance that produces 	noun	16	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
anguish	excruciating or acute distress, suffering, or pain	noun	13	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
angular	having an 	adjective	12	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
animadversion	an unfavorable or censorious comment	noun	23	67-Few English speakers likely know this word
animated	full of life, action, or spirit; lively; vigorous	adjective	13	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
animosity	a feeling of strong dislike, ill will, or enmity that tends to display itself in action	noun	15	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
animus	strong dislike or enmity; hostile attitude; animosity.	noun	11	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
annals	a record of events, especially a yearly record, usually in chronological order.	noun	9	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
anneal	to heat (glass, earthenware, metals, etc.) to remove or prevent internal stress.	verb (used with object)	9	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
annex	to attach, append, or add, especially to something larger or more important.	verb (used with object)	14	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
annihilate	to reduce to utter ruin or nonexistence; destroy utterly	verb (used with object)	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
annotate	to supply with critical or explanatory 	verb (used with object)	10	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
annuity	a specified income payable at stated intervals for a fixed or a contingent period, often for the recipient's life, in consideration of a stipulated premium paid either in prior installment payments or in a single payment.	noun	12	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
annul	(especially of laws or other established rules, usages, etc.) to make void or null; abolish; cancel; invalidate	verb (used with object)	9	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
anodyne	a medicine that relieves or allays pain.	noun	12	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
anoint	to rub or sprinkle on; apply an unguent, ointment, or oily liquid to.	verb (used with object)	8	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
anomalous	deviating from or inconsistent with the common order, form, or rule; 	adjective	15	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
anomaly	a deviation from the common rule, type, arrangement, or form.  Synonyms	noun	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
anonymity	the state or quality of being 	noun	18	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
antagonism	an active hostility or opposition, as between unfriendly or conflicting groups	noun	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
antecede	to go before, in time, order, rank, etc.; precede	verb (used with object)	13	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
antecedents	preceding; prior	adjective	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
antediluvian	of or belonging to the period before the Flood. Gen. 7, 8.	adjective	21	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
anthem	a song, as of praise, devotion, or patriotism	noun	12	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
anthology	a book or other collection of selected writings by various authors, usually in the same literary form, of the same period, or on the same subject	noun	17	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
anthropoid	resembling humans.	adjective	17	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
anthropologist	a person who specializes in 	noun	23	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
anthropomorphic	ascribing human form or attributes to a being or thing not human, especially to a deity.	adjective	32	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
anticlimax	an event, conclusion, statement, etc., that is far less important, powerful, or striking than expected.	noun	25	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
antidote	a medicine or other remedy for counteracting the effects of poison, disease, etc.	noun	10	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
antipathy	a natural, basic, or habitual repugnance; aversion.	noun	17	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
antiquated	continued from, resembling, or adhering to the past; old-fashioned	adjective	22	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
antiseptic	pertaining to or affecting 	adjective	17	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
antithesis	opposition; contrast	noun	13	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
anvil	a heavy iron block with a smooth face, frequently of steel, on which metals, usually heated until soft, are hammered into desired shapes.	noun	11	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
apathy	absence or suppression of passion, emotion, or excitement.	noun	13	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
ape	any of a group of anthropoid primates characterized by long arms, a broad chest, and the absence of a tail, comprising the family Pongidae (great ape) which includes the chimpanzee, gorilla, and orangutan, and the family Hylobatidae (lesser ape) which includes the gibbon and siamang.	noun	6	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
aperture	an opening, as a hole, slit, crack, gap, etc.	noun	12	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
apex	the tip, point, or vertex; summit.	noun	14	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
aphasia	the loss of a previously held ability to speak or understand spoken or written language, due to disease or injury of the brain.	noun	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
apiarist	a person who keeps an 	noun	11	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
apiary	a place in which a colony or colonies of bees are kept, as a stand or shed for beehives or a bee house containing a number of beehives.	noun	11	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
apiculture	beekeeping, especially on a commercial scale for the sale of honey.	noun	19	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
aplomb	imperturbable self-possession, poise, or assurance.	noun	16	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
apocalyptic	of or like an 	adjective	26	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
apocryphal	of doubtful authorship or authenticity.	adjective	24	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
apogee	Astronomy. the point in the orbit of a heavenly body, especially the moon, or of a man-made satellite at which it is farthest from the earth.  Compare  	noun	11	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
apolitical	not 	adjective	18	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
apologist	a person who makes a defense in speech or writing of a belief, idea, etc.	noun	15	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
apoplexy		noun	24	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
apostate	a person who forsakes his religion, cause, party, etc.	noun	11	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
apothecary	a druggist; a pharmacist.	noun	20	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
apothegm	a short, pithy, instructive saying; a terse remark or aphorism.	noun	18	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
apotheosis	the elevation or exaltation of a person to the rank of a god.	noun	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
appall	to fill or overcome with horror, consternation, or fear; dismay	verb (used with object)	14	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
apparent	readily seen; exposed to sight; open to view; visible	adjective	15	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
apparition	a supernatural appearance of a person or thing, especially a ghost; a specter or phantom; wraith	noun	17	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
appease	to bring to a state of peace, quiet, ease, calm, or contentment; pacify; soothe	verb (used with object)	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
appellation	a name, title, or designation.	noun	20	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
append	to add as a supplement, accessory, or 	verb (used with object)	14	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
application	the act of putting to a special use or purpose	noun	22	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
apposite	suitable; well-adapted; pertinent; relevant; apt	adjective	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
appraise	to estimate the monetary value of; determine the worth of; assess	verb (used with object)	14	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
appreciate	to be grateful or thankful for	verb (used with object)	19	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
apprehend	to take into custody; arrest by legal warrant or authority	verb (used with object)	19	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
apprehensive	uneasy or fearful about something that might happen	adjective	25	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
apprise	to give notice to; inform; advise (often followed by of)	verb (used with object)	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
approbation	approval; commendation.	noun	21	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
appropriate	suitable or fitting for a particular purpose, person, occasion, etc.	adjective	20	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
appurtenances	something subordinate to another, more important thing; adjunct; accessory.	noun	25	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
apropos	fitting; at the right time; to the purpose; opportunely.	adverb	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
aptitude	capability; ability; innate or acquired capacity for something; talent	noun	13	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
aquiline	(of the nose) shaped like an eagle's beak; hooked.	adjective	20	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
arable	capable of producing crops; suitable for farming; suited to the plow and for tillage	adjective	10	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
arbiter	a person empowered to decide matters at issue; judge; umpire.	noun	10	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
arbitrary	subject to individual will or judgment without restriction; contingent solely upon one's discretion	adjective	14	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
arbitrate	to decide as 	verb (used with object)	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
arboreal	of or relating to trees; treelike.	adjective	12	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
arboretum	a plot of land on which many different trees or shrubs are grown for study or display.	noun	16	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
arcade	Architecture.    a series of arches supported on piers or columns.    an arched, roofed-in gallery.      Compare    	noun	10	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
arcane	known or understood by very few; mysterious; secret; obscure; esoteric	adjective	10	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
archaeology	the scientific study of historic or prehistoric peoples and their cultures by analysis of their artifacts, inscriptions, monuments, and other such remains, especially those that have been excavated.	noun	21	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
archaic	marked by the characteristics of an earlier period; antiquated	adjective	15	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
archetype	the original pattern or model from which all things of the same kind are copied or on which they are based; a model or first form; prototype.	noun	19	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
archipelago	a large group or chain of islands	noun	22	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
archives	Usually, archives. documents or records relating to the activities, business dealings, etc., of a person, family, corporation, association, community, or nation.	noun	17	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
ardor	great warmth of feeling; fervor; passion	noun	6	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
arduous	requiring great exertion; laborious; difficult	adjective	10	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
argot	a specialized idiomatic vocabulary peculiar to a particular class or group of people, especially that of an underworld group, devised for private communication and identification	noun	7	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
aria	an 	noun	4	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
arid	being without moisture; extremely dry; parched	adjective	5	6-All English speakers likely know this word
aristocracy	a class of persons holding exceptional rank and privileges, especially the hereditary nobility.	noun	19	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
armada	Also called Invincible Armada, Spanish Armada. the fleet sent against England by Philip II of Spain in 1588. It was defeated by the English navy and later dispersed and wrecked by storms.	noun	10	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
aromatic	having an 	adjective	14	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
arraign	to call or bring before a court to answer to an indictment.	verb (used with object)	10	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
array	to place in proper or desired order; marshal	verb (used with object)	7	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
arrhythmic	any disturbance in the rhythm of the heartbeat.	noun	22	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
arrogance	offensive display of superiority or self-importance; overbearing pride.	noun	15	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
arroyo	(chiefly in southwest U.S.) a small steep-sided watercourse or gulch with a nearly flat floor	noun	8	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
arsenal	a place of storage or a magazine containing arms and military equipment for land or naval service.	noun	9	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
artery	Anatomy. a blood vessel that conveys blood from the heart to any part of the body.	noun	8	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
artful	slyly crafty or cunning; deceitful; tricky	adjective	11	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
articulate	uttered clearly in distinct syllables.	adjective	15	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
artifacts	any object made by human beings, especially with a view to subsequent use.	noun	14	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
artifice	a clever trick or stratagem; a cunning, crafty device or expedient; wile.	noun	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
artisan	a person skilled in an applied art; a craftsperson.	noun	8	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
artless	free from deceit, cunning, or craftiness; ingenuous	adjective	8	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
ascendancy	the state of being in the 	noun	21	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
ascertain	to find out definitely; learn with certainty or assurance; determine	verb (used with object)	13	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
ascetic	a person who dedicates his or her life to a pursuit of contemplative ideals and practices extreme self-denial or self-mortification for religious reasons.	noun	13	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
ascribe	to credit or assign, as to a cause or source; attribute; impute	verb (used with object)	13	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
aseptic	free from the living germs of disease, fermentation, or putrefaction.	adjective	13	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
ashen	ash-colored; gray.	adjective	8	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
asinine	foolish, unintelligent, or silly; stupid	adjective	9	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
askance	with suspicion, mistrust, or disapproval	adverb	15	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
askew	to one side; out of line; in a crooked position; awry	adverb	12	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
asperity	harshness or sharpness of tone, temper, or manner; severity; acrimony	noun	13	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
aspersion	a damaging or derogatory remark or criticism; slander	noun	13	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
aspirant	a person who 	noun	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
aspire	to long, aim, or seek ambitiously; be eagerly desirous, especially for something great or of high value (usually followed by to, after, or an infinitive)	verb (used without object)	9	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
assail	to attack vigorously or violently; assault.	verb (used with object)	7	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
assay	to examine or analyze	verb (used with object)	7	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
assent	to agree or concur; subscribe to (often followed by to)	verb (used without object)	7	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
assert	to state with assurance, confidence, or force; state strongly or positively; affirm; aver	verb (used with object)	6	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
assiduous	constant; unremitting	adjective	12	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
assimilate	to take in and incorporate as one's own; absorb	verb (used with object)	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
assuage	to make milder or less severe; relieve; ease; mitigate	verb (used with object)	10	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
assumption	something taken for granted; a supposition	noun	18	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
assurance	a positive declaration intended to give confidence	noun	14	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
asteroid	Also called 	noun	9	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
astigmatism	Also called astigmia          	noun	19	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
astral	pertaining to or proceeding from the stars; stellar; star-shaped.	adjective	7	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
astringent	Medicine/Medical. contracting; constrictive; styptic.	adjective	14	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
astronomical	of, relating to, or connected with 	adjective	20	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
astute	of keen penetration or discernment; sagacious	adjective	7	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
asunder	into separate parts; in or into pieces	adverb, adjective	10	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
asylum	(especially formerly) an institution for the maintenance and care of the mentally ill, orphans, or other persons requiring specialized assistance.	noun	13	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
asymmetric	not identical on both sides of a central line; unsymmetrical; lacking symmetry	adjective	21	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
atavism	Biology.    the reappearance in an individual of characteristics of some remote ancestor that have been absent in intervening generations.    an individual embodying such a reversion.  	noun	14	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
atheistic	pertaining to or characteristic of 	adjective	14	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
atone	to make amends or reparation, as for an offense or a crime, or for an offender (usually followed by for)	verb (used without object)	6	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
atrocity	the quality or state of being 	noun	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
atrophy	Also, atrophia          	noun	14	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
attentive	characterized by or giving 	adjective	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
attenuate	to weaken or reduce in force, intensity, effect, quantity, or value	verb (used with object)	11	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
attest	to bear witness to; certify; declare to be correct, true, or genuine; declare the truth of, in words or writing, especially affirm in an official capacity	verb (used with object)	6	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
attire	to dress, array, or adorn, especially for special occasions, ceremonials, etc.	verb (used with object)	6	8-All English speakers likely know this word
attribute	to regard as resulting from a specified cause; consider as caused by something indicated (usually followed by to)	verb (used with object)	13	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
attrition	a reduction or decrease in numbers, size, or strength	noun	10	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
atypical	not 	adjective	17	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
audacious	extremely bold or daring; recklessly brave; fearless	adjective	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
audit	an official examination and verification of accounts and records, especially of financial accounts.	noun	7	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
augment	to make larger; enlarge in size, number, strength, or extent; increase	verb (used with object)	14	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
augury	the art or practice of an 	noun	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
august	inspiring reverence or admiration; of supreme dignity or grandeur; majestic	adjective	10	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
aureole	a radiance surrounding the head or the whole figure in the representation of a sacred personage.	noun	9	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
auroral	of or like the dawn.	adjective	9	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
auspicious	promising success; propitious; opportune; favorable	adjective	18	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
austere	severe in manner or appearance; uncompromising; strict; forbidding	adjective	8	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
authenticate	to establish as genuine.	verb (used with object)	19	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
authoritarian	favoring complete obedience or subjection to 	adjective	17	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
authoritative	having due 	adjective	20	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
autocratic	pertaining to or of the nature of 	adjective	17	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
automaton	a mechanical figure or contrivance constructed to act as if by its own motive power; robot.	noun	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
autonomous	Government.    self-governing; independent; subject to its own laws only.    pertaining to an 	adjective	16	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
autopsy	inspection and dissection of a body after death, as for determination of the cause of death; postmortem examination.	noun	13	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
auxiliary	additional; supplementary; reserve	adjective	20	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
avalanche	a large mass of snow, ice, etc., detached from a mountain slope and sliding or falling suddenly downward.	noun	20	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
avantgarde	the advance group in any field, especially in the visual, literary, or musical arts, whose works are characterized chiefly by unorthodox and experimental methods.	noun	0	74-Few English speakers likely know this word
avarice	insatiable greed for riches; inordinate, miserly desire to gain and hoard wealth.	noun	14	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
avenge	to take 	verb (used with object)	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
aver	to assert or affirm with confidence; declare in a positive or peremptory manner.	verb (used with object)	8	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
averse	having a strong feeling of opposition, antipathy, repugnance, etc.; opposed	adjective	10	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
aversion	a strong feeling of dislike, opposition, repugnance, or antipathy (usually followed by to)	noun	13	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
avert	to turn away or aside	verb (used with object)	9	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
aviary	a large cage or a house or enclosure in which birds are kept.	noun	12	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
avid	showing great enthusiasm for or interest in	adjective	9	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
avocation	something a person does in addition to a principal occupation, especially for pleasure; hobby	noun	17	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
avow	to declare frankly or openly; own; acknowledge; confess; admit	verb (used with object)	11	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
avuncular	of, relating to, or characteristic of an 	adjective	20	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
awe	an overwhelming feeling of reverence, admiration, fear, etc., produced by that which is grand, sublime, extremely powerful, or the like	noun	6	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
awful	extremely bad; unpleasant; ugly	adjective	13	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
awl	a pointed instrument for piercing small holes in leather, wood, etc.	noun	7	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
awry	with a turn or twist to one side; askew	adverb, adjective	9	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
axiom	a self-evident truth that requires no proof.	noun	15	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
azure	of or having a light, purplish shade of blue, like that of a clear and unclouded sky.	adjective	15	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
babble	to utter sounds or words imperfectly, indistinctly, or without meaning.	verb (used without object)	16	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
bacchanal	a follower of Bacchus.	noun	22	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
Bacchanalia	(sometimes used with a plural verb) a festival in honor of Bacchus.  Compare  	noun	24	68-Few English speakers likely know this word
bacchanalian	(sometimes used with a plural verb) a festival in honor of Bacchus.  Compare  	noun	26	68-Few English speakers likely know this word
backslide	to relapse into bad habits, sinful behavior, or undesirable activities.	verb (used without object)	21	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
badger	any of various burrowing, carnivorous mammals of the family Mustelidae, as Taxidea taxus, of North America, and Meles meles, of Europe and Asia.	noun	12	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
badinage	light, playful banter or raillery.	noun	15	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
baffle	to confuse, bewilder, or perplex	verb (used with object)	16	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
bait	food, or some substitute, used as a lure in fishing, trapping, etc.	noun	7	10-All English speakers likely know this word
baleful	full of menacing or malign influences; pernicious.	adjective	16	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
balk	to stop, as at an obstacle, and refuse to proceed or to do something specified (usually followed by at)	verb (used without object)	12	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
ballast	Nautical. any heavy material carried temporarily or permanently in a vessel to provide desired draft and stability.	noun	12	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
balm	any of various oily, fragrant, resinous substances, often of medicinal value, exuding from certain plants, especially tropical trees of the genus Commiphora.	noun	11	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
balmy	mild and refreshing; soft; soothing	adjective	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
banal	devoid of freshness or originality; hackneyed; trite	adjective	10	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
bandy	to pass from one to another or back and forth; give and take; trade; exchange	verb (used with object)	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
bane	a person or thing that ruins or spoils	noun	8	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
bank	a long pile or heap; mass	noun	12	4-All English speakers likely know this word
bantering	an exchange of light, playful, teasing remarks; good-natured raillery.	noun	16	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
bar	a relatively long, evenly shaped piece of some solid substance, as metal or wood, used as a guard or obstruction or for some mechanical purpose	noun	6	4-All English speakers likely know this word
barb	a point or pointed part projecting backward from a main point, as of a fishhook or arrowhead.	noun	10	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
bard	(formerly) a person who composed and recited epic or heroic poems, often while playing the harp, lyre, or the like.	noun	8	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
barefaced	with the face uncovered.	adjective	19	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
bargain	an advantageous purchase, especially one acquired at less than the usual cost	noun	13	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
baroque	(often initial capital letter) of or relating to a style of architecture and art originating in Italy in the early 17th century and variously prevalent in Europe and the New World for a century and a half, characterized by free and sculptural use of the classical orders and ornament, by forms in elevation and plan suggesting movement, and by dramatic effect in which architecture, painting, sculpture, and the decorative arts often worked to combined effect.	adjective	20	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
barrage	Military. a heavy barrier of artillery fire to protect one's own advancing or retreating troops or to stop the advance of enemy troops.	noun	12	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
barrister	(in England) a lawyer who is a member of one of the Inns of Court and who has the privilege of pleading in the higher courts.  Compare  	noun	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
barterer	to trade by exchange of commodities rather than by the use of money.	verb (used without object)	9	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
base	the bottom support of anything; that on which a thing stands or rests	noun	7	6-All English speakers likely know this word
bask	to lie in or be exposed to a pleasant warmth	verb (used without object)	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
bastard	a person born of unmarried parents; an illegitimate child.	noun	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
bastion	Fortification. a projecting portion of a rampart or fortification that forms an irregular pentagon attached at the base to the main work.	noun	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
bate	to moderate or restrain	verb (used with object)	7	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
battalion	Military. a ground force unit composed of a headquarters and two or more companies or similar units.	noun	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
bauble	a showy, usually cheap, ornament; trinket; gewgaw.	noun	14	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
bawdy	indecent; lewd; obscene	adjective	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
bearing	the manner in which one conducts or carries oneself, including posture and gestures	noun	13	11-All English speakers likely know this word
beatific	bestowing bliss, blessings, happiness, or the like	adjective	17	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
beatitude	supreme blessedness; exalted happiness.	noun	14	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
bedizen	to dress or adorn in a showy, gaudy, or tasteless manner.	verb (used with object)	21	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
bedraggle	to make limp and soiled, as with rain or dirt.	verb (used with object)	18	66-Few English speakers likely know this word
beeline	a direct route traveled quickly (usually in the phrase make a beeline for)	noun	12	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
befuddle	to confuse, as with glib statements or arguments	verb (used with object)	18	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
beget	(especially of a male parent) to procreate or generate (offspring).	verb (used with object)	10	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
begrudge	to envy or resent the pleasure or good fortune of (someone)	verb (used with object)	17	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
beguile	to influence by trickery, flattery, etc.; mislead; delude.	verb (used with object)	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
behemoth	an animal, perhaps the hippopotamus, mentioned in Job 40	noun	18	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
beholden	obligated; indebted	adjective	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
behoove	to be necessary or proper for, as for moral or ethical considerations; be incumbent on	verb (used with object)	16	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
belabor	to explain, worry about, or work at (something) repeatedly or more than is necessary	verb (used with object)	14	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
belated	coming or being after the customary, useful, or expected time	adjective	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
beleaguer	to surround with military forces.	verb (used with object)	16	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
belie	to show to be false; contradict	verb (used with object)	9	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
belittle	to regard or portray as 	verb (used with object)	13	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
bellicose	inclined or eager to fight; aggressively hostile; belligerent; pugnacious.	adjective	17	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
belligerent	warlike; given to waging war.	adjective	19	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
bemoan	to express distress or grief over; lament	verb (used with object)	13	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
bemused	bewildered or confused.	adjective	15	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
benediction	an utterance of good wishes.	noun	20	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
benefactor	a person who confers a benefit; kindly helper.	noun	20	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
beneficent	doing good or causing good to be done; conferring 	adjective	21	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
beneficial	conferring benefit; advantageous; helpful	adjective	21	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
beneficiary	a person or group that receives benefits, profits, or advantages.	noun	23	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
benefit	something that is advantageous or good; an advantage	noun	14	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
benevolent	characterized by or expressing goodwill or kindly feelings	adjective	20	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
benign	having a kindly disposition; gracious	adjective	13	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
benison		noun	12	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
bent	curved; crooked	adjective	8	10-All English speakers likely know this word
bequeath	to dispose of (personal property, especially money) by last will	verb (used with object)	23	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
berate	to scold; rebuke	verb (used with object)	9	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
bereaved	(of a person) greatly saddened at being deprived by death of a loved one.	adjective	16	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
bereft	a simple past tense and past participle of 	verb	12	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
berserk	violently or destructively frenzied; wild; crazed; deranged	adjective	14	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
beseech	to implore urgently	verb (used with object)	15	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
beset	to attack on all sides; assail; harass	verb (used with object)	8	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
besiege	to lay siege to.	verb (used with object)	12	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
besmirch	to soil; tarnish; discolor.	verb (used with object)	19	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
bestial	of, relating to, or having the form of a 	adjective	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
bestow	to present as a gift; give; confer (usually followed by on or upon)	verb (used with object)	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
betoken	to give evidence of; indicate	verb (used with object)	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
betray	to deliver or expose to an enemy by treachery or disloyalty	verb (used with object)	11	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
betroth	to arrange for the marriage of; affiance (usually used in passive constructions)	verb (used with object)	12	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
bevy	a group of birds, as larks or quail, or animals, as roebuck, in close association.	noun	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
beware	to be wary, cautious, or careful of (usually used imperatively)	verb (used with object)	12	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
bewitch	to affect by witchcraft or magic; cast a spell over.	verb (used with object)	18	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
bicameral	having two branches, chambers, or houses, as a legislative body.	adjective	19	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
bicker	to engage in petulant or peevish argument; wrangle	verb (used without object)	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
bid	to command; order; direct	verb (used with object)	7	11-All English speakers likely know this word
biennial	happening every two years	adjective	14	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
bifurcated	to divide or 	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	21	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
bigot	a person who is utterly intolerant of any differing creed, belief, or opinion.	noun	10	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
bigotry	stubborn and complete intolerance of any creed, belief, or opinion that differs from one's own.	noun	14	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
bilious	Physiology, Pathology. pertaining to 	adjective	12	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
bilk	to defraud; cheat	verb (used with object)	12	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
billow	a great wave or surge of the sea.	noun	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
billowing	a great wave or surge of the sea.	noun	20	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
bivouac	a military encampment made with tents or improvised shelters, usually without shelter or protection from enemy fire.	noun	18	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
bizarre	markedly unusual in appearance, style, or general character and often involving incongruous or unexpected elements; outrageously or whimsically strange; odd	adjective	19	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
blackball	to vote against (a candidate, applicant, etc.).	verb (used with object)	25	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
blanch	to whiten by removing color; bleach	verb (used with object)	16	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
bland	pleasantly gentle or agreeable	adjective	11	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
blandishment	Often, blandishments. something, as an action or speech, that tends to flatter, coax, entice, etc.	noun	24	66-Few English speakers likely know this word
blare	to emit a loud, raucous sound	verb (used without object)	9	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
blasphemy	impious utterance or action concerning God or sacred things.	noun	23	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
blatant	brazenly obvious; flagrant	adjective	12	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
bleak	bare, desolate, and often windswept	adjective	13	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
blemish	to destroy or diminish the perfection of	verb (used with object)	16	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
blight	Plant Pathology.    the rapid and extensive discoloration, wilting, and death of plant tissues.    a disease so characterized.  	noun	14	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
blighted	Plant Pathology.    the rapid and extensive discoloration, wilting, and death of plant tissues.    a disease so characterized.  	noun	17	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
bliss	supreme happiness; utter joy or contentment	noun	9	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
blithe	joyous, merry, or gay in disposition; glad; cheerful	adjective	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
bloated	swollen; puffed up; overlarge.	adjective	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
blotch	a large, irregular spot or blot.	noun	15	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
blowhard	an exceptionally boastful and talkative person.	noun	18	74-Few English speakers likely know this word
bludgeon	a short, heavy club with one end weighted, or thicker and heavier than the other.	noun	17	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
blue	the pure color of a clear sky; the primary color between green and violet in the visible spectrum, an effect of light with a wavelength between 450 and 500 nm.	noun	9	2-All English speakers likely know this word
blues	the blues, (used with a plural verb) depressed spirits; despondency; melancholy	noun	10	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
bluff	good-naturedly direct, blunt, or frank; heartily outspoken	adjective	16	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
blunder	a gross, stupid, or careless mistake	noun	14	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
blunt	having an obtuse, thick, or dull edge or point; rounded; not sharp	adjective	11	5-All English speakers likely know this word
blurt	to utter suddenly or inadvertently; divulge impulsively or unadvisedly (usually followed by out)	verb (used with object)	10	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
blush	to redden, as from embarrassment or shame	verb (used without object)	12	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
bluster	to roar and be tumultuous, as wind.	verb (used without object)	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
bode	to be an omen of; portend	verb (used with object)	8	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
bog	wet, spongy ground with soil composed mainly of decayed vegetable matter.	noun	8	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
bogus	not genuine; counterfeit; spurious; sham.	adjective	11	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
bohemian	a native or inhabitant of 	noun	17	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
boisterous	rough and noisy; noisily jolly or rowdy; clamorous; unrestrained	adjective	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
bolster	a long, often cylindrical, cushion or pillow for a bed, sofa, etc.	noun	11	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
bolt	a movable bar or rod that when slid into a socket fastens a door, gate, etc.	noun	8	4-All English speakers likely know this word
bombardment	to attack or batter with artillery fire.	verb (used with object)	25	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
bombast	speech too pompous for an occasion; pretentious words.	noun	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
bombastic	(of speech, writing, etc.) high-sounding; high-flown; inflated; pretentious.	adjective	21	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
bookish	given or devoted to reading or study.	adjective	16	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
boon	something to be thankful for; blessing; benefit.	noun	8	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
boor	a churlish, rude, or unmannerly person.	noun	7	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
boorish	of or like a 	adjective	12	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
boost	to lift or raise by pushing from behind or below.	verb (used with object)	8	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
botch	to spoil by poor work; bungle (often followed by up)	verb (used with object)	13	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
bouillon	a clear, usually seasoned broth made by straining water in which beef, chicken, etc., has been cooked, or by dissolving a commercially prepared bouillon cube or cubes in hot water.	noun	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
bound	simple past tense and past participle of 	verb	11	5-All English speakers likely know this word
bountiful	liberal in bestowing gifts, favors, or 	adjective	19	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
bourgeois	a member of the middle class.	noun	15	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
bout	a contest or trial of strength, as of boxing.	noun	8	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
bovine	of or relating to the subfamily Bovinae, which includes cattle, buffalo, and kudus.	adjective	14	8-All English speakers likely know this word
bowdlerize	to expurgate (a written work) by removing or modifying passages considered vulgar or objectionable.	verb (used with object)	27	69-Few English speakers likely know this word
brackish	slightly salt; having a salty or briny flavor.	adjective	20	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
brag	to use boastful language; boast	verb (used without object)	9	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
braggadocio	empty boasting; 	noun	22	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
braggart	a person who does a lot of 	noun	15	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
braid	to weave together strips or strands of; plait	verb (used with object)	9	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
brand	kind, grade, or make, as indicated by a stamp, trademark, or the like	noun	10	3-All English speakers likely know this word
brandish	to shake or wave, as a weapon; flourish	verb (used with object)	15	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
bravado	a pretentious, swaggering display of courage.	noun	15	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
brave	possessing or exhibiting courage or courageous endurance.	adjective	12	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
brawl	a noisy quarrel, squabble, or fight.	noun	12	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
brawn	strong, well-developed muscles.	noun	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
brawny	muscular; strong.	adjective	15	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
brazen	shameless or impudent	adjective	19	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
breach	the act or a result of breaking; break or rupture.	noun	14	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
breadth	the measure of the second largest dimension of a plane or solid figure; width.	noun	13	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
breed	to produce (offspring); procreate; engender.	verb (used with object)	9	5-All English speakers likely know this word
brevity	shortness of time or duration; 	noun	16	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
bridle	part of the tack or harness of a horse, consisting usually of a headstall, bit, and reins.	noun	11	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
brim	the upper edge of anything hollow; rim; brink	noun	10	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
brindled	gray or tawny with darker streaks or spots.	adjective	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
brink	the edge or margin of a steep place or of land bordering water.	noun	13	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
brisk	quick and active; lively	adjective	12	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
bristle	one of the short, stiff, coarse hairs of certain animals, especially hogs, used extensively in making brushes.	noun	11	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
bristling	one of the short, stiff, coarse hairs of certain animals, especially hogs, used extensively in making brushes.	noun	16	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
brittle	having hardness and rigidity but little tensile strength; breaking readily with a comparatively smooth fracture, as glass.	adjective	11	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
broach	Machinery. an elongated, tapered, serrated cutting tool for shaping and enlarging holes.	noun	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
brocade	fabric woven with an elaborate design, especially one having a raised overall pattern.	noun	14	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
brochure	a pamphlet or leaflet.	noun	17	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
broil	to cook by direct heat, as on a gridiron over the heat or in an oven under the heat; grill	verb (used with object)	9	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
bromide	Chemistry.    a salt of hydrobromic acid consisting of two elements, one of which is bromine, as 	noun	14	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
brooch	a clasp or ornament having a pin at the back for passing through the clothing and a catch for securing the point of the pin.	noun	14	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
brood	a number of young produced or hatched at one time; a family of offspring or young.	noun	9	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
brook	a small, natural stream of fresh water.	noun	12	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
browbeat	to intimidate by overbearing looks or words; bully	verb (used with object)	17	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
browse	to eat, nibble at, or feed on (leaves, tender shoots, or other soft vegetation).	verb (used with object)	12	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
bruise	to injure by striking or pressing, without breaking the skin	verb (used with object)	10	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
brunt	the main force or impact, as of an attack or blow	noun	10	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
brusque	abrupt in manner; blunt; rough	adjective	21	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
buccaneer	any of the piratical adventurers who raided Spanish colonies and ships along the American coast in the second half of the 17th century.	noun	20	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
bucolic	of or relating to shepherds; pastoral.	adjective	18	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
buffet	a blow, as with the hand or fist.	noun	16	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
buffoon	a person who amuses others by tricks, jokes, odd gestures and postures, etc.	noun	18	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
buffoonery	a person who amuses others by tricks, jokes, odd gestures and postures, etc.	noun	23	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
bugaboo	something that causes fear or worry; bugbear; bogy.	noun	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
bulge	a rounded projection, bend, or protruding part; protuberance; hump	noun	12	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
bulk	magnitude in three dimensions	noun	13	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
bullion	gold or silver considered in mass rather than in value.	noun	14	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
bully	a blustering, quarrelsome, overbearing person who habitually badgers and intimidates smaller or weaker people.	noun	13	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
bulwark	a wall of earth or other material built for defense; rampart.	noun	19	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
bump	to come more or less violently in contact with; collide with; strike	verb (used with object)	14	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
bungle	to do clumsily and awkwardly; botch	verb (used with object)	14	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
buoyant	tending to float in a fluid.	adjective	14	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
bureaucracy	government by many bureaus, administrators, and petty officials.	noun	24	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
burgeon	to grow or develop quickly; flourish	verb (used without object)	14	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
burlesque	an artistic composition, especially literary or dramatic, that, for the sake of laughter, vulgarizes lofty material or treats ordinary material with mock dignity.	noun	24	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
burnish	to polish (a surface) by friction.	verb (used with object)	14	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
bust	a sculptured, painted, drawn, or engraved representation of the upper part of the human figure, especially a portrait sculpture showing only the head and shoulders of the subject.	noun	8	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
buttress	any external prop or support built to steady a structure by opposing its outward thrusts, especially a projecting support built into or against the outside of a masonry wall.	noun	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
buxom	(of a woman) full-bosomed.	adjective	19	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
cabal	a small group of secret plotters, as against a government or person in authority.	noun	12	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
cache	a hiding place, especially one in the ground, for ammunition, food, treasures, etc.	noun	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
cacophonous	having a harsh or discordant sound.	adjective	24	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
cadaver	a dead body, especially a human body to be dissected; corpse.	noun	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
cadaverous	of or like a corpse.	adjective	19	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
cadence	rhythmic flow of a sequence of sounds or words	noun	15	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
cadet	a student in a national service academy or private military school or on a training ship.	noun	9	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
cajole	to persuade by flattery or promises; wheedle; coax.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	19	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
calamity	a great misfortune or disaster, as a flood or serious injury.	noun	17	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
calculated	arrived at or determined by mathematical 	adjective	20	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
cauldron	a large kettle or boiler.	noun	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
caliber	the diameter of something of circular section, especially that of the inside of a tube	noun	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
calligraphy	fancy penmanship, especially highly decorative handwriting, as with a great many flourishes	noun	25	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
callous	made hard; hardened.	adjective	13	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
callow	immature or inexperienced	adjective	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
callus	Pathology, Physiology.    a hardened or thickened part of the skin; a callosity.    a new growth of osseous matter at the ends of a fractured bone, serving to unite them.  	noun	12	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
calorific	pertaining to conversion into heat.	adjective	19	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
calumny	a false and malicious statement designed to injure the reputation of someone or something	noun	18	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
camaraderie	comradeship; good-fellowship.	noun	18	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
cameo	a technique of engraving upon a gem or other stone, as onyx, in such a way that an underlying stone of one color is exposed as a background for a low-relief design of another color.	noun	11	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
camp	a place where an army or other group of persons or an individual is lodged in a tent or tents or other temporary means of shelter.	noun	13	3-All English speakers likely know this word
canard	a false or baseless, usually derogatory story, report, or rumor.	noun	11	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
candor	the state or quality of being frank, open, and sincere in speech or expression; candidness	noun	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
canine	of or like a dog; relating to or characteristic of dogs	adjective	11	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
canker	a gangrenous or ulcerous sore, especially in the mouth.	noun	14	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
canny	careful; cautious; prudent	adjective	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
cant	insincere, especially conventional expressions of enthusiasm for high ideals, goodness, or piety.	noun	8	7-All English speakers likely know this word
cantankerous	disagreeable to deal with; contentious; peevish	adjective	22	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
cantata	a choral composition, either sacred and resembling a short oratorio or secular, as a lyric drama set to music but not to be acted.	noun	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
canter	an easy gallop.	noun	10	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
canto	one of the main or larger divisions of a long poem.	noun	9	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
canvass	to solicit votes, subscriptions, opinions, or the like from.	verb (used with object)	15	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
capacious	capable of holding much; spacious or roomy	adjective	19	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
capacity	the ability to receive or contain	noun	19	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
capillary	pertaining to or occurring in or as if in a tube of fine bore.	adjective	19	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
capitulate	to surrender unconditionally or on stipulated terms.	verb (used without object)	18	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
caprice	a sudden, unpredictable change, as of one's mind or the weather.	noun	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
capricious	subject to, led by, or indicative of a sudden, odd notion or unpredictable change; erratic	adjective	20	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
capsize	to turn bottom up; overturn	verb (used without object), verb (used with object)	22	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
caption	a title or explanation for a picture or illustration, especially in a magazine.	noun	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
captious	apt to notice and make much of trivial faults or defects; faultfinding; difficult to please.	adjective	15	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
carafe	a wide-mouthed glass or metal bottle with a lip or spout, for holding and serving beverages.	noun	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
carapace	a bony or chitinous shield, test, or shell covering some or all of the dorsal part of an animal, as of a turtle.	noun	17	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
carat	a unit of weight in gemstones, 200 milligrams (about 3 grains of troy or avoirdupois weight).  Abbreviation	noun	8	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
carcinogenic	any substance or agent that tends to produce a cancer.	noun	25	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
cardinal	of prime importance; chief; principal	adjective	14	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
cardiologist	the study of the heart and its functions in health and disease.	noun	19	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
careen	(of a vehicle) to lean, sway, or tip to one side while in motion	verb (used without object)	10	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
career	an occupation or profession, especially one requiring special training, followed as one's lifework	noun	9	6-All English speakers likely know this word
carefree	without anxiety or worry.	adjective	14	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
caricature	a picture, description, etc., ludicrously exaggerating the peculiarities or defects of persons or things	noun	17	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
carillon	a set of stationary bells hung in a tower and sounded by manual or pedal action, or by machinery.	noun	14	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
carnage	the slaughter of a great number of people, as in battle; butchery; massacre.	noun	13	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
carnal	pertaining to or characterized by the flesh or the body, its passions and appetites; sensual	adjective	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
carnivorous	flesh-eating	adjective	20	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
carousal	a noisy or drunken feast or social gathering; revelry.	noun	13	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
carping	characterized by fussy or petulant faultfinding; querulous	adjective	16	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
carrion	dead and putrefying flesh.	noun	11	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
cartography	the production of maps, including construction of projections, design, compilation, drafting, and reproduction.	noun	23	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
cascade	a waterfall descending over a steep, rocky surface.	noun	14	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
caste	Sociology.    an endogamous and hereditary social group limited to persons of the same rank, occupation, economic position, etc., and having mores distinguishing it from other such groups.    any rigid system of social distinctions.  	noun	8	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
castigation	to criticize or reprimand severely.	verb (used with object)	17	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
castrate	to remove the testes of; emasculate; geld.	verb (used with object)	11	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
casual	happening by chance; fortuitous	adjective	11	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
casualty	Military.    a member of the armed forces lost to service through death, wounds, sickness, capture, or because his or her whereabouts or condition cannot be determined.    casualties, loss in numerical strength through any cause, as death, wounds, sickness, capture, or desertion.  	noun	15	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
cataclysm	any violent upheaval, especially one of a social or political nature.	noun	21	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
catalyst	Chemistry. a substance that causes or accelerates a chemical reaction without itself being affected.	noun	14	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
catapult	an ancient military engine for hurling stones, arrows, etc.	noun	16	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
cataract	a descent of water over a steep surface; a waterfall, especially one of considerable size.	noun	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
catastrophe	a sudden and widespread disaster	noun	19	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
catcall	a shrill, whistlelike sound or loud raucous shout made to express disapproval at a theater, meeting, etc.	noun	15	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
catechism	Ecclesiastical.    an elementary book containing a summary of the principles of the Christian religion, especially as maintained by a particular church, in the form of questions and answers.    the contents of such a book.  	noun	20	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
categorical	without exceptions or conditions; absolute; unqualified and unconditional	adjective	20	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
cater	to provide food, service, etc., as for a party or wedding	verb (used without object)	8	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
catharsis	the purging of the emotions or relieving of emotional tensions, especially through certain kinds of art, as tragedy or music.	noun	14	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
cathartic	of or relating to 	adjective	17	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
catholic	broad or wide-ranging in tastes, interests, or the like; having sympathies with all; broad-minded; liberal.	adjective	17	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
caucus	U.S. Politics.    a meeting of party leaders to select candidates, elect convention delegates, etc.    a meeting of party members within a legislative body to select leaders and determine strategy.    (often initial capital letter) a faction within a legislative body that pursues its interests through the legislative process	noun	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
caulk	to fill or close seams or crevices of (a tank, window, etc.) in order to make watertight, airtight, etc.	verb (used with object)	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
causal	of, constituting, or implying a 	adjective	11	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
caustic	capable of burning, corroding, or destroying living tissue.	adjective	14	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
cauterize	to burn with a hot iron, electric current, fire, or a caustic, especially for curative purposes; treat with a 	verb (used with object)	22	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
cavalcade	a procession of persons riding on horses, in horsedrawn carriages, in cars, etc.	noun	21	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
cavalier	a horseman, especially a mounted soldier; knight.	noun	16	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
cavil	to raise irritating and trivial objections; find fault with unnecessarily (usually followed by at or about)	verb (used without object)	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
cede	to yield or formally surrender to another	verb (used with object)	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
celerity	swiftness; speed.	noun	14	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
celibate	a person who abstains from sexual relations.	noun	15	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
cemetery	an area set apart for or containing graves, tombs, or funeral urns, especially one that is not a churchyard; burial ground; graveyard.	noun	16	11-All English speakers likely know this word
censor	an official who examines books, plays, news reports, motion pictures, radio and television programs, letters, cablegrams, etc., for the purpose of suppressing parts deemed objectionable on moral, political, military, or other grounds.	noun	10	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
censorious	severely critical; faultfinding; carping.	adjective	15	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
censure	strong or vehement expression of disapproval	noun	12	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
centaur	Classical Mythology. one of a race of monsters having the head, trunk, and arms of a man, and the body and legs of a horse.	noun	12	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
centigrade	divided into 100 degrees, as a scale.	adjective	17	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
centrifugal	moving or directed outward from the center (opposed to 	adjective	22	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
centrifuge	an apparatus that rotates at high speed and by 	noun	20	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
centripetal	directed toward the center (opposed to 	adjective	19	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
centurion	(in the ancient Roman army) the commander of a century.	noun	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
cerebral	Anatomy, Zoology. of or relating to the cerebrum or the brain.	adjective	15	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
cerebration	to use the mind; think or think about.	verb (used without object), verb (used with object)	18	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
ceremonious	carefully observant of 	adjective	19	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
certitude	freedom from doubt, especially in matters of faith or opinion; certainty.	noun	14	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
cessation	a temporary or complete stopping; discontinuance	noun	13	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
cession	act of 	noun	11	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
chafe	to wear or abrade by rubbing	verb (used with object)	13	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
chaff	the husks of grains and grasses that are separated during threshing.	noun	16	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
chaffing	to mock, tease, or jest in a good-natured way; banter	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	22	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
chagrin	a feeling of vexation, marked by disappointment or humiliation.	noun	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
chalice	Ecclesiastical.    a cup for the wine of the Eucharist or Mass.    the wine contained in it.  	noun	16	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
chameleon	any of numerous Old World lizards of the family Chamaeleontidae, characterized by the ability to change the color of their skin, very slow locomotion, and a projectile tongue.	noun	19	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
champion	a person who has defeated all opponents in a competition or series of competitions, so as to hold first place	noun	20	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
championship	the distinction or condition of being a 	noun	29	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
chancellor	the chief minister of state in certain parliamentary governments, as in Germany; prime minister; premier.	noun	21	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
chant	a short, simple melody, especially one characterized by single notes to which an indefinite number of syllables are intoned, used in singing psalms, canticles, etc., in church services.	noun	11	9-All English speakers likely know this word
chaotic	completely confused or disordered	adjective	15	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
chapel	a private or subordinate place of prayer or worship; oratory.	noun	15	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
chaperon	a person, usually a married or older woman, who, for propriety, accompanies a young unmarried woman in public or who attends a party of young unmarried men and women.	noun	17	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
chaplain	an ecclesiastic attached to the chapel of a royal court, college, etc., or to a military unit.	noun	18	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
char	to burn or reduce to 	verb (used with object)	9	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
charisma	Theology. a divinely conferred gift or power.	noun	16	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
charlatan	a person who pretends or claims to have more knowledge or skill than he or she possesses; quack.	noun	16	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
charm	a power of pleasing or attracting, as through personality or beauty	noun	13	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
chary	cautious or careful; wary	adjective	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
chase	to pursue in order to seize, overtake, etc.	verb (used with object)	10	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
chasm	a yawning fissure or deep cleft in the earth's surface; gorge.	noun	13	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
chassis	Automotive. the frame, wheels, and machinery of a motor vehicle, on which the body is supported.	noun	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
chaste	refraining from sexual intercourse that is regarded as contrary to morality or religion; virtuous.	adjective	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
chasten	to inflict suffering upon for purposes of moral improvement; 	verb (used with object)	13	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
chastise	to discipline, especially by corporal punishment.	verb (used with object)	13	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
check	to stop or arrest the motion of suddenly or forcibly	verb (used with object)	17	9-All English speakers likely know this word
chequered	a small, usually red or black disk of plastic or wood, used in playing checkers.	noun	25	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
cherub	a celestial being. Gen. 3	noun	15	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
chicanery	trickery or deception by quibbling or sophistry	noun	20	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
chide	to express disapproval of; scold; reproach	verb (used with object)	11	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
chimerical	unreal; imaginary; visionary	adjective	22	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
chip	a small, slender piece, as of wood, separated by chopping, cutting, or breaking.	noun	12	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
chisel	a wedgelike tool with a cutting edge at the end of the blade, often made of steel, used for cutting or shaping wood, stone, etc.	noun	12	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
chivalrous	having the qualities of 	adjective	21	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
choice	an act or instance of 	noun	14	6-All English speakers likely know this word
choir	a company of singers, especially an organized group employed in church service.	noun	10	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
choleric	extremely irritable or easily angered; irascible	adjective	17	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
chore	a small or odd job; routine task.	noun	10	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
choreography	the art of composing ballets and other dances and planning and arranging the movements, steps, and patterns of dancers.	noun	26	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
chortle	to chuckle gleefully.	verb (used without object)	13	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
chorus	Music.    a group of persons singing in unison.    (in an opera, oratorio, etc.) such a group singing 	noun	12	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
chronic	constant; habitual; inveterate	adjective	16	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
chronicle	a chronological record of events; a history.	noun	19	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
chuckle	to laugh softly or amusedly, usually with satisfaction	verb (used without object)	21	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
churlish	like a churl; boorish; rude	adjective	17	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
ciliated	Also called ciliophoran          	noun	13	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
cipher		noun	14	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
circlet	a small circle.	noun	14	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
circuit	an act or instance of going or moving around.	noun	14	10-All English speakers likely know this word
circuitous	roundabout; not direct	adjective	18	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
circumlocution	a roundabout or indirect way of speaking; the use of more words than necessary to express an idea.	noun	30	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
circumscribe	to draw a line around; encircle	verb (used with object)	28	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
circumspect	watchful and discreet; cautious; prudent	adjective	27	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
circumvent	to go around or bypass	verb (used with object)	25	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
cistern	a reservoir, tank, or container for storing or holding water or other liquid.	noun	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
citadel	a fortress that commands a city and is used in the control of the inhabitants and in defense during attack or siege.	noun	12	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
cite	to quote (a passage, book, author, etc.), especially as an authority	verb (used with object)	7	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
civil	of, relating to, or consisting of citizens	adjective	13	7-All English speakers likely know this word
clairvoyant	having or claiming to have the power of seeing objects or actions beyond the range of natural vision	adjective	22	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
clamber	to climb, using both feet and hands; climb with effort or difficulty.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	17	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
clamor	a loud uproar, as from a crowd of people	noun	13	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
clandestine	characterized by, done in, or executed with secrecy or concealment, especially for purposes of subversion or deception; private or surreptitious	adjective	18	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
clangor	a loud, resonant sound; 	noun	14	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
clap	to strike the palms of (one's hands) against one another resoundingly, and usually repeatedly, especially to express approval	verb (used with object)	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
clapper	a person who applauds.	noun	17	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
clarion	clear and shrill	adjective	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
clasp	a device, usually of metal, for fastening together two or more things or parts of the same thing	noun	12	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
claustrophobia	an abnormal fear of being in enclosed or narrow places.	noun	27	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
clavicle	a bone of the pectoral arch.	noun	20	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
cleave	to adhere closely; stick; cling (usually followed by to).	verb (used without object)	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
cleft	a space or opening made by cleavage; a split.	noun	12	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
clemency	the quality of being 	noun	21	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
cliche	a trite, stereotyped expression; a sentence or phrase, usually expressing a popular or common thought or idea, that has lost originality, ingenuity, and impact by long overuse, as sadder but wiser, or strong as an ox.	noun	15	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
clientele	the clients or customers, as of a professional person or shop, considered collectively; a group or body of clients	noun	15	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
climactic	pertaining to or coming to a 	adjective	22	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
clime		noun	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
clip	to cut, or cut off or out, as with shears	verb (used with object)	11	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
clipper	a person or thing that 	noun	17	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
clique	a small, exclusive group of people; coterie; set.	noun	20	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
cloister	a covered walk, especially in a religious institution, having an open arcade or colonnade usually opening onto a courtyard.	noun	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
clot	a mass or lump.	noun	8	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
clout	a blow, especially with the hand; cuff	noun	10	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
clown	a comic performer, as in a circus, theatrical production, or the like, who wears an outlandish costume and makeup and entertains by pantomiming common situations or actions in exaggerated or ridiculous fashion, by juggling or tumbling, etc.	noun	13	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
cloying	causing or tending to cause disgust or aversion through excess	adjective	16	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
coagulate	to change from a fluid into a thickened mass; curdle; congeal	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
coalesce	to grow together or into one body	verb (used without object)	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
coalition	a combination or alliance, especially a temporary one between persons, factions, states, etc.	noun	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
coax	to attempt to influence by gentle persuasion, flattery, etc.; cajole	verb (used with object)	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
coda	Music. a more or less independent passage, at the end of a composition, introduced to bring it to a satisfactory close.	noun	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
coddle	to treat tenderly; nurse or tend indulgently; pamper	verb (used with object)	12	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
codicil	a supplement to a will, containing an addition, explanation, modification, etc., of something in the will.	noun	15	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
codify	to reduce (laws, rules, etc.) to a 	verb (used with object)	15	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
coercion	the act of 	noun	15	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
coeval	of the same age, date, or duration; equally old	adjective	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
cog	(not in technical use) a gear tooth, formerly especially one of hardwood or metal, fitted into a slot in a gearwheel of less durable material.	noun	8	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
cogent	convincing or believable by virtue of forcible, clear, or incisive presentation; telling.	adjective	12	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
cogitate	to think hard; ponder; meditate	verb (used without object)	13	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
cognate	related by birth; of the same parentage, descent, etc.	adjective	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
cognitive	of or relating to 	adjective	19	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
cognizance	awareness, realization, or knowledge; notice; perception	noun	29	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
cohabit	to live together as if married, usually without legal or religious sanction.	verb (used without object)	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
cohere	to stick together; be united; hold fast, as parts of the same mass	verb (used without object)	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
cohesion	the act or state of 	noun	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
cohorts	a group or company	noun	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
coiffure	a style of arranging or combing the hair.	noun	18	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
coin	a piece of metal stamped and issued by the authority of a government for use as money.	noun	8	7-All English speakers likely know this word
coincidence	a striking occurrence of two or more events at one time apparently by mere chance	noun	23	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
colander	a metal or plastic container with a perforated bottom, for draining and straining foods.	noun	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
collaborate	to work, one with another; cooperate, as on a literary work	verb (used without object)	19	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
collage	a technique of composing a work of art by pasting on a single surface various materials not normally associated with one another, as newspaper clippings, parts of photographs, theater tickets, and fragments of an envelope.	noun	14	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
collate	to gather or arrange in their proper sequence (the pages of a report, the sheets of a book, the pages of several sets of copies, etc.).	verb (used with object)	12	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
collateral	security pledged for the payment of a loan	noun	16	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
collation	the act of 	noun	15	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
collected	having control of one's faculties; self-possessed	adjective	18	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
colloquial	characteristic of or appropriate to ordinary or familiar conversation rather than formal speech or writing; informal.	adjective	26	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
colloquy	a conversational exchange; dialogue.	noun	25	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
collusion	a secret agreement, especially for fraudulent or treacherous purposes; conspiracy	noun	16	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
colossal	extraordinarily great in size, extent, or degree; gigantic; huge.	adjective	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
colossus	(initial capital letter) the legendary bronze statue of Helios at Rhodes.  Compare  	noun	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
coma	a state of prolonged unconsciousness, including a lack of response to stimuli, from which it is impossible to rouse a person.	noun	10	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
comatose	affected with or characterized by coma.	adjective	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
combustible	capable of catching fire and burning; inflammable; flammable	adjective	25	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
comeback	a return to a former higher rank, popularity, position, prosperity, etc.	noun	24	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
comely	pleasing in appearance; attractive; fair	adjective	15	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
comestible	edible; eatable.	adjective	20	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
comeuppance	deserved reward or just deserts, usually unpleasant	noun	28	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
comity	mutual courtesy; civility.	noun	14	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
commandeer	to order or force into active military service.	verb (used with object)	21	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
commemorate	to serve as a memorial or reminder of	verb (used with object)	23	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
commemorative	serving to 	adjective	29	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
commensurate	corresponding in amount, magnitude, or degree	adjective	23	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
commiserate	to feel or express sorrow or sympathy for; empathize with; pity.	verb (used with object)	20	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
commodious	spacious and convenient; roomy	adjective	21	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
commonplace	ordinary; undistinguished or uninteresting; without individuality	adjective	28	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
commonwealth	(initial capital letter) a group of sovereign states and their dependencies associated by their own choice and linked with common objectives and interests	noun	28	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
communal	used or shared in common by everyone in a group	adjective	20	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
commune	to converse or talk together, usually with profound intensity, intimacy, etc.; interchange thoughts or feelings.	verb (used without object)	18	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
compact	joined or packed together; closely and firmly united; dense; solid	adjective	19	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
compartment	a part or space marked or partitioned off.	noun	24	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
compassion	a feeling of deep sympathy and sorrow for another who is stricken by misfortune, accompanied by a strong desire to alleviate the suffering.	noun	20	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
compatible	capable of existing or living together in harmony	adjective	23	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
compelling	tending to 	adjective	24	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
compendium	a brief treatment or account of a subject, especially an extensive subject; concise treatise	noun	25	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
compensatory	serving to 	adjective	24	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
compilation	the act of 	noun	22	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
compile	to put together (documents, selections, or other materials) in one book or work.	verb (used with object)	17	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
complacency	a feeling of quiet pleasure or security, often while unaware of some potential danger, defect, or the like; self-satisfaction or smug satisfaction with an existing situation, condition, etc.	noun	30	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
complaisant	inclined or disposed to please; obliging; agreeable or gracious; compliant	adjective	22	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
complement	something that completes or makes perfect	noun	24	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
complementary	forming a 	adjective	29	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
compliance	the act of conforming, acquiescing, or yielding.	noun	24	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
compliant		adjective	20	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
complicity	the state of being an accomplice; partnership or involvement in wrongdoing	noun	25	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
component	a constituent part; element; ingredient.	noun	20	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
comport	to bear or conduct (oneself); behave	verb (used with object)	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
compost	a mixture of various decaying organic substances, as dead leaves or manure, used for fertilizing soil.	noun	16	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
composure	serene, self-controlled state of mind; calmness; tranquillity	noun	19	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
compound	composed of two or more parts, elements, or ingredients	adjective	20	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
comprehensive	of large scope; covering or involving much; inclusive	adjective	29	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
compress	to press together; force into less space.	verb (used with object)	17	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
comprise	to include or contain	verb (used with object)	17	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
compromise	a settlement of differences by mutual concessions; an agreement reached by adjustment of conflicting or opposing claims, principles, etc., by reciprocal modification of demands.	noun	22	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
compulsion	the act of 	noun	22	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
compulsive	compelling; compulsory.	adjective	25	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
compulsory	required; mandatory; obligatory	adjective	23	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
compunction	a feeling of uneasiness or anxiety of the conscience caused by regret for doing wrong or causing pain; contrition; remorse.	noun	26	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
compute	to determine by calculation; reckon; calculate	verb (used with object)	17	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
concatenate	to link together; unite in a series or chain.	verb (used with object)	19	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
concave	curved like a segment of the interior of a circle or 	adjective	18	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
concede	to acknowledge as true, just, or proper; admit	verb (used with object)	15	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
conceit	an excessively favorable opinion of one's own ability, importance, wit, etc.	noun	14	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
concentric	having a common center, as circles or spheres.	adjective	21	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
conception	the act of 	noun	21	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
concerted	contrived or arranged by agreement; planned or devised together	adjective	17	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
concession	the act of 	noun	18	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
conciliatory	tending to 	adjective	22	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
concise	expressing or covering much in few words; brief in form but comprehensive in scope; succinct; terse	adjective	14	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
conclave	a private or secret meeting.	noun	20	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
conclusive	serving to settle or decide a question; decisive; convincing	adjective	23	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
concoct	to prepare or make by combining ingredients, especially in cookery	verb (used with object)	17	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
concomitant	existing or occurring with something else, often in a lesser way; accompanying; concurrent	adjective	22	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
concord		noun	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
concordat	an agreement or compact, especially an official one.	noun	17	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
concur	to accord in opinion; agree	verb (used without object)	14	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
concurrent	occurring or existing simultaneously or side by side	adjective	19	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
condescend	to behave as if one is conscious of descending from a superior position, rank, or dignity.	verb (used without object)	20	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
condign	well-deserved; fitting; adequate	adjective	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
condiments	something used to give a special flavor to food, as mustard, ketchup, salt, or spices.	noun	19	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
condole	to express sympathy with a person who is suffering sorrow, misfortune, or grief (usually followed by with)	verb (used without object)	13	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
condone	to disregard or overlook (something illegal, objectionable, or the like)	verb (used with object)	13	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
conducive	tending to produce; contributive; helpful; favorable (usually followed by to)	adjective	22	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
conduit	a pipe, tube, or the like, for conveying water or other fluid.	noun	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
confidant	a close friend or associate to whom secrets are 	noun	18	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
confide	to impart secrets trustfully; discuss private matters or problems (usually followed by in)	verb (used without object)	15	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
confidence	full trust; belief in the powers, trustworthiness, or reliability of a person or thing	noun	22	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
confidential	spoken, written, acted on, etc., in strict privacy or secrecy; secret	adjective	22	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
confine	to enclose within bounds; limit or restrict	verb (used with object)	15	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
confiscate	to seize as forfeited to the public domain; appropriate, by way of penalty, for public use.	verb (used with object)	20	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
conflagration	a destructive fire, usually an extensive one.	noun	24	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
confluence	a flowing together of two or more streams, rivers, or the like	noun	23	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
conformity	action in accord with prevailing social standards, attitudes, practices, etc.	noun	22	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
confound	to perplex or amaze, especially by a sudden disturbance or surprise; bewilder; confuse	verb (used with object)	18	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
congeal	to change from a soft or fluid state to a rigid or solid state, as by cooling or freezing	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	14	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
congenial	agreeable, suitable, or pleasing in nature or character	adjective	17	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
congenital	of or relating to a condition present at birth, whether inherited or caused by the environment, especially the uterine environment.	adjective	18	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
conglomerate	anything composed of heterogeneous materials or elements.	noun	22	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
conglomeration	the act of 	noun	25	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
congruence	the quality or state of agreeing or corresponding.	noun	21	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
congruent	agreeing; accordant; congruous.	adjective	17	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
conifer	any of numerous, chiefly evergreen trees or shrubs of the class Coniferinae (or group Coniferales), including the pine, fir, spruce, and other cone-bearing trees and shrubs, and also the yews and their allies that bear drupelike seeds.	noun	14	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
conjecture	the formation or expression of an opinion or theory without sufficient evidence for proof.	noun	27	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
conjugal	of, relating to, or characteristic of marriage	adjective	25	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
conjure	to affect or influence by or as if by invocation or spell.	verb (used with object)	21	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
connivance	the act of conniving.	noun	23	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
connoisseur	a person who is especially competent to pass critical judgments in an art, particularly one of the fine arts, or in matters of taste	noun	17	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
connotation	   the associated or secondary meaning of a word or expression in addition to its explicit or primary meaning	noun	17	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
connubial	of marriage or wedlock; matrimonial; conjugal	adjective	19	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
consanguineous	having the same ancestry or descent; related by blood.	adjective	24	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
consanguinity	relationship by descent from a common ancestor; kinship (distinguished from 	noun	24	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
conscientious	governed by 	adjective	22	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
conscript	to draft for military or naval service.	verb (used with object)	19	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
consecrate	to make or declare sacred; set apart or dedicate to the service of a deity	verb (used with object)	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
consensus	majority of opinion	noun	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
consequential	following as an effect, result, or outcome; resultant; consequent.	adjective	29	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
conservatory	a school giving instruction in one or more of the fine or dramatic arts; specifically, a school of music.	noun	22	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
consign	to hand over or deliver formally or officially; commit (often followed by to).	verb (used with object)	14	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
consistency	a degree of density, firmness, viscosity, etc.	noun	21	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
console	to alleviate or lessen the grief, sorrow, or disappointment of; give solace or comfort	verb (used with object)	12	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
consolidation	an act or instance of consolidating; the state of being consolidated; unification	noun	20	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
consonance	accord or agreement.	noun	19	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
consonant	Phonetics.    (in English articulation) a speech sound produced by occluding with or without releasing (p, b; t, d; k, g), diverting (m, n, ng), or obstructing (f, v; s, z, etc.) the flow of air from the lungs (opposed to 	noun	15	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
consort	a husband or wife; spouse, especially of a reigning monarch.  Compare  	noun	11	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
conspiracy	the act of 	noun	22	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
conspire	to agree together, especially secretly, to do something wrong, evil, or illegal	verb (used without object)	15	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
consternation	a sudden, alarming amazement or dread that results in utter confusion; dismay.	noun	19	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
constituency	a body of 	noun	23	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
constituent	serving to compose or make up a thing; component	adjective	17	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
constitution	the system of fundamental principles according to which a nation, state, corporation, or the like, is governed.	noun	18	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
constraint	limitation or restriction.	noun	15	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
construe	to give the meaning or intention of; explain; interpret.	verb (used with object)	13	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
consummate	to bring to a state of perfection; fulfill.	verb (used with object)	21	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
contagion	the communication of disease by direct or indirect contact.	noun	16	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
contaminate	to make impure or unsuitable by contact or mixture with something unclean, bad, etc.	verb (used with object)	19	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
contempt	the feeling with which a person regards anything considered mean, vile, or worthless; disdain; scorn.	noun	18	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
contend	to struggle in opposition	verb (used without object)	13	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
contention	a struggling together in opposition; strife.	noun	16	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
contentious	tending to argument or strife; quarrelsome	adjective	17	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
contest	a race, conflict, or other competition between rivals, as for a prize.	noun	11	9-All English speakers likely know this word
context	the parts of a written or spoken statement that precede or follow a specific word or passage, usually influencing its meaning or effect	noun	18	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
contiguous	touching; in contact.	adjective	18	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
continence	self-restraint or abstinence, especially in regard to sexual activity; temperance; moderation.	noun	19	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
contingent	dependent for existence, occurrence, character, etc., on something not yet certain; conditional (often followed by on or upon)	adjective	18	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
contortions	the act or process of 	noun	16	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
contraband	anything prohibited by law from being imported or exported.	noun	19	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
contravene	to come or be in conflict with; go or act against; deny or oppose	verb (used with object)	19	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
contrite	caused by or showing sincere remorse.	adjective	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
contrivance	something 	noun	23	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
contrive	to plan with ingenuity; devise; invent	verb (used with object)	16	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
contrived	obviously planned or forced; artificial; strained	adjective	18	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
controvert	to argue against; dispute; deny; oppose.	verb (used with object)	18	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
contumacious	stubbornly perverse or rebellious; willfully and obstinately disobedient.	adjective	24	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
contusion	an injury, as from a blow with a blunt instrument, in which the subsurface tissue is injured but the skin is not broken; bruise.	noun	15	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
conundrum	a riddle, the answer to which involves a pun or play on words, as What is black and white and read all over? A newspaper.	noun	20	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
convene	to come together or assemble, usually for some public purpose.	verb (used without object)	16	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
convention	a meeting or formal assembly, as of representatives or delegates, for discussion of and action on particular matters of common concern.	noun	20	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
conventional	conforming or adhering to accepted standards, as of conduct or taste	adjective	23	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
converge	to tend to meet in a point or line; incline toward each other, as lines that are not parallel.	verb (used without object)	18	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
conversant	familiar by use or study (usually followed by with)	adjective	19	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
converse	to talk informally with another or others; exchange views, opinions, etc., by talking.	verb (used without object)	16	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
convert	to change (something) into a different form or properties; transmute; transform.	verb (used with object)	15	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
convex	having a surface that is curved or rounded outward.  Compare  	adjective	21	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
conveyance	the act of conveying; transmission; communication.	noun	24	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
conviction	a fixed or firm belief	noun	22	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
convivial	friendly; agreeable	adjective	22	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
convoke	to call together; summon to meet or assemble.	verb (used with object)	19	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
convoluted	twisted; coiled.	adjective	21	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
convulsion	contortion of the body caused by violent, involuntary muscular contractions of the extremities, trunk, and head.	noun	21	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
copious	large in quantity or number; abundant; plentiful	adjective	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
coquette	a woman who flirts lightheartedly with men to win their admiration and affection; flirt.	noun	21	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
cordial	courteous and gracious; friendly; warm	adjective	12	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
cordon	a line of police, sentinels, military posts, warships, etc., enclosing or guarding an area.	noun	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
cornice	Architecture.    any prominent, continuous, horizontally projecting feature surmounting a wall or other construction, or dividing it horizontally for compositional purposes.    the uppermost member of a classical entablature, consisting of a bed molding, a corona, and a cymatium, with rows of dentils, modillions, etc., often placed between the bed molding and the corona.  	noun	14	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
cornucopia	Classical Mythology. a horn containing food, drink, etc., in endless supply, said to have been a horn of the goat Amalthaea.	noun	21	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
corollary	Mathematics. a proposition that is incidentally proved in proving another proposition.	noun	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
corporeal	of the nature of the physical body; bodily.	adjective	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
corpulent	large or bulky of body; portly; stout; fat.	adjective	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
corpus	a large or complete collection of writings	noun	13	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
corpuscle	Biology. an unattached cell, especially of a kind that floats freely, as a blood or lymph cell.	noun	20	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
correlate	to place in or bring into mutual or reciprocal relation; establish in orderly connection	verb (used with object)	13	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
correlation	mutual relation of two or more things, parts, etc.	noun	16	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
corroborate	to make more certain; confirm	verb (used with object)	17	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
corrode	to eat or wear away gradually as if by gnawing, especially by chemical action.	verb (used with object)	11	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
corrosive	having the quality of 	adjective	16	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
corrugated	to draw or bend into folds or alternate furrows and ridges.	verb (used with object)	17	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
cosmic	of or relating to the 	adjective	15	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
coterie	a group of people who associate closely.	noun	10	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
countenance	appearance, especially the look or expression of the face	noun	21	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
countermand	to revoke or cancel (a command, order, etc.).	verb (used with object)	21	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
counterpart	a person or thing closely resembling another, especially in function	noun	19	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
coup	a highly successful, unexpected stroke, act, or move; a clever action or accomplishment.	noun	11	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
couple	two of the same sort considered together; pair.	noun	14	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
courier	a messenger, usually traveling in haste, bearing urgent news, important reports or packages, diplomatic messages, etc.	noun	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
court	Law.    a place where justice is administered.    a judicial tribunal duly constituted for the hearing and determination of cases.    a session of a judicial assembly.  	noun	9	2-All English speakers likely know this word
covenant	an agreement, usually formal, between two or more persons to do or not do something specified.	noun	17	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
covert	concealed; secret; disguised.	adjective	13	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
covetous	inordinately or wrongly desirous of wealth or possessions; greedy.	adjective	16	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
cow	the mature female of a bovine animal, especially of the genus Bos.	noun	9	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
cower	to crouch, as in fear or shame.	verb (used without object)	11	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
coy	artfully or affectedly shy or reserved; slyly hesitant; coquettish.	adjective	8	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
cozen	to cheat, deceive, or trick.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	18	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
crabbed	grouchy; ill-natured; irritable; churlish.	adjective	17	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
craft	an art, trade, or occupation requiring special skill, especially manual skill	noun	11	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
crass	without refinement, delicacy, or sensitivity; gross; obtuse; stupid	adjective	8	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
crave	to long for; want greatly; desire eagerly	verb (used with object)	12	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
craven	cowardly; contemptibly timid; pusillanimous.	adjective	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
credence	belief as to the truth of something	noun	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
credential	Usually, credentials. evidence of authority, status, rights, entitlement to privileges, or the like, usually in written form	noun	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
credo	(often initial capital letter) the Apostles' Creed or the Nicene Creed.	noun	9	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
credulity	willingness to believe or trust too readily, especially without proper or adequate evidence; gullibility.	noun	17	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
creed	any system, doctrine, or formula of religious belief, as of a denomination.	noun	9	7-All English speakers likely know this word
creep	to move slowly with the body close to the ground, as a reptile or an insect, or a person on hands and knees.	verb (used without object)	11	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
cremate	to reduce (a dead body) to ashes by fire, especially as a funeral rite.	verb (used with object)	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
crescendo	Music.    a gradual, steady increase in loudness or force.    a musical passage characterized by such an increase.    the performance of a crescendo passage	noun	17	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
crest	the highest part of a hill or mountain range; summit.	noun	8	10-All English speakers likely know this word
crestfallen	dejected; dispirited; discouraged.	adjective	20	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
crevice	a crack forming an opening; cleft; rift; fissure.	noun	17	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
cringe	to shrink, bend, or crouch, especially in fear or servility; cower.	verb (used without object)	12	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
crinkle	to wrinkle; crimple; ripple.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
criteria	a standard of judgment or criticism; a rule or principle for evaluating or testing something.	noun	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
crochet	needlework done with a needle having a small hook at one end for drawing the thread or yarn through intertwined loops.	noun	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
crone	a withered, witchlike old woman.	noun	9	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
cross	a structure consisting essentially of an upright and a transverse piece, used to execute persons in ancient times.	noun	8	3-All English speakers likely know this word
crossbreed	to produce (a hybrid); hybridize.	verb (used with object)	17	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
crotchety	given to odd notions, whims, grouchiness, etc.	adjective	19	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
crust	the brown, hard outer portion or surface of a loaf or slice of bread (distinguished from 	noun	9	6-All English speakers likely know this word
crux	a vital, basic, decisive, or pivotal point	noun	15	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
crypt	a subterranean chamber or vault, especially one beneath the main floor of a church, used as a burial place, a location for secret meetings, etc.	noun	13	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
cryptic	mysterious in meaning; puzzling; ambiguous	adjective	18	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
cubicle	a small space or compartment partitioned off.	noun	18	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
cue	anything said or done, on or off stage, that is followed by a specific line or action	noun	7	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
cuisine	a style or quality of cooking; cookery	noun	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
culinary	of, relating to, or used in cooking or the kitchen.	adjective	16	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
cull	to choose; select; pick.	verb (used with object)	10	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
culmination	the act or fact of 	noun	21	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
culpable	deserving blame or censure; blameworthy.	adjective	20	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
culprit	a person or other agent guilty of or responsible for an offense or fault.	noun	15	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
culvert	a drain or channel crossing under a road, sidewalk, etc.; sewer; conduit.	noun	16	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
cumbersome	burdensome; troublesome.	adjective	23	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
cumulative	increasing or growing by accumulation or successive additions	adjective	23	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
cunning	skill employed in a shrewd or sly manner, as in deceiving; craftiness; guile.	noun	16	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
cupidity	eager or excessive desire, especially to possess something; greed; avarice.	noun	18	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
curator	the person in charge of a museum, art collection, etc.	noun	11	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
curb	a rim, especially of joined stones or concrete, along a street or roadway, forming an edge for a sidewalk.	noun	11	11-All English speakers likely know this word
curfew	an order establishing a specific time in the evening after which certain regulations apply, especially that no civilians or other specified group of unauthorized persons may be outdoors or that places of public assembly must be closed.	noun	16	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
curmudgeon	a bad-tempered, difficult, cantankerous person.	noun	22	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
cursive	(of handwriting) in flowing strokes with the letters joined together.	adjective	15	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
cursory	going rapidly over something, without noticing details; hasty; superficial	adjective	13	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
curtail	to cut short; cut off a part of; abridge; reduce; diminish.	verb (used with object)	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
cynical	distrusting or disparaging the motives of others; like or characteristic of a 	adjective	17	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
cynosure	something that strongly attracts attention by its brilliance, interest, etc.	noun	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
dabble	to play and splash in or as if in water, especially with the hands.	verb (used without object)	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
dainty	of delicate beauty; exquisite	adjective	10	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
dais	a raised platform, as at the front of a room, for a lectern, throne, seats of honor, etc.	noun	5	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
dally	to waste time; loiter; delay.	verb (used without object)	10	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
damn	to declare (something) to be bad, unfit, invalid, or illegal.	verb (used with object)	9	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
dank	unpleasantly moist or humid; damp and, often, chilly	adjective	10	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
dapper	neat; trim; smart	adjective	13	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
dappled	having spots of a different shade, tone, or color from the background; mottled.	adjective	16	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
dart	a small, slender missile that is pointed at one end and usually feathered at the other and is propelled by hand, as in the game of darts, or by a blowgun when used as a weapon.	noun	5	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
daub	to cover or coat with soft, adhesive matter, as plaster or mud	verb (used with object)	9	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
daunt	to overcome with fear; intimidate	verb (used with object)	8	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
dauntless	not to be 	adjective	13	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
dawdle	to waste time; idle; trifle; loiter	verb (used without object)	12	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
daze	to stun or stupefy with a blow, shock, etc.	verb (used with object)	14	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
dazzle	to overpower or dim the vision of by intense light	verb (used with object)	26	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
deadlock	a state in which progress is impossible, as in a dispute, produced by the counteraction of opposing forces; standstill; stalemate	noun	18	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
deadpan	marked by or accomplished with a careful pretense of seriousness or calm detachment; impassive or expressionless	adjective	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
dearth	an inadequate supply; scarcity; lack	noun	9	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
debacle	a general breakup or dispersion; sudden downfall or rout	noun	15	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
debar	to shut out or exclude from a place or condition	verb (used with object)	9	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
debase	to reduce in quality or value; adulterate	verb (used with object)	10	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
debauch	to corrupt by sensuality, intemperance, etc.; seduce.	verb (used with object)	17	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
debilitate	to make weak or feeble; enfeeble	verb (used with object)	15	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
debonair	courteous, gracious, and having a sophisticated charm	adjective	13	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
debris	the remains of anything broken down or destroyed; ruins; rubble	noun	10	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
debunk	to expose or excoriate (a claim, assertion, sentiment, etc.) as being pretentious, false, or exaggerated	verb (used with object)	16	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
debut	a first public appearance on a stage, on television, etc.	noun	10	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
debutante	a young woman making a debut into society.	noun	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
decadence	the act or process of falling into an inferior condition or state; deterioration; decay	noun	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
decant	to pour (wine or other liquid) gently so as not to disturb the sediment.	verb (used with object)	11	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
decapitate	to cut off the head of; behead	verb (used with object)	17	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
decelerate	to decrease the velocity of	verb (used with object)	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
deciduous	shedding the leaves annually, as certain trees and shrubs.	adjective	16	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
decimate	to destroy a great number or proportion of	verb (used with object)	15	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
decipher	to make out the meaning of (poor or partially obliterated writing, etc.)	verb (used with object)	17	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
declivity	a downward slope, as of ground (opposed to 	noun	20	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
decollete	(of a garment) low-necked.	adjective	15	79-Few English speakers likely know this word
decomposition	the act or process of 	noun	24	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
decorous	characterized by dignified propriety in conduct, manners, appearance, character, etc.	adjective	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
decorum	dignified propriety of behavior, speech, dress, etc.	noun	15	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
decoy	a person who entices or lures another person or thing, as into danger, a trap, or the like.	noun	11	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
decree	a formal and authoritative order, especially one having the force of law	noun	10	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
decrepit	weakened by old age; feeble; infirm	adjective	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
decrepitude	decrepit condition; dilapidated state; feebleness, especially from old age.	noun	20	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
decry	to speak disparagingly of; denounce as faulty or worthless; express censure of	verb (used with object)	11	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
deducible	to derive as a conclusion from something known or assumed; infer	verb (used with object)	19	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
deface	to mar the surface or appearance of; disfigure	verb (used with object)	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
defalcate	to be guilty of 	verb (used without object)	17	72-Few English speakers likely know this word
defame	to attack the good name or reputation of, as by uttering or publishing maliciously or falsely anything injurious; slander or libel; calumniate	verb (used with object)	13	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
default	failure to act; inaction or neglect	noun	13	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
defeatist	a person who surrenders easily or is subject to 	noun	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
defect	a shortcoming, fault, or imperfection	noun	13	11-All English speakers likely know this word
defection	desertion from allegiance, loyalty, duty, or the like; apostasy	noun	17	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
defer	to put off (action, consideration, etc.) to a future time	verb (used with object)	9	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
deference	respectful submission or yielding to the judgment, opinion, will, etc., of another.	noun	17	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
defiance	a daring or bold resistance to authority or to any opposing force.	noun	16	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
defile	to make foul, dirty, or unclean; pollute; taint; debase.	verb (used with object)	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
definitive	most reliable or complete, as of a text, author, criticism, study, or the like	adjective	19	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
deflect	to bend or turn aside; turn from a true course or straight line; swerve.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	15	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
defoliate	to strip (a tree, bush, etc.) of leaves.	verb (used with object)	14	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
defray	to bear or pay all or part of (the costs, expenses, etc.)	verb (used with object)	12	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
defrock	to unfrock.	verb (used with object)	18	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
deft	dexterous; nimble; skillful; clever	adjective	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
defunct	no longer in effect or use; not operating or functioning	adjective	16	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
degenerate	to fall below a normal or desirable level in physical, mental, or moral qualities; deteriorate	verb (used without object)	14	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
degradation	the act of 	noun	16	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
dehydrate	to deprive (a chemical compound) of water or the elements of water.	verb (used with object)	15	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
deify	to make a god of; exalt to the rank of a 	verb (used with object)	11	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
deign	to think fit or in accordance with one's dignity; condescend	verb (used without object)	9	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
delete	to strike out or remove (something written or printed); cancel; erase; expunge.	verb (used with object)	8	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
deleterious	injurious to health	adjective	14	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
deliberate	carefully weighed or considered; studied; intentional	adjective	15	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
delineate	to trace the outline of; sketch or trace in outline; represent pictorially	verb (used with object)	12	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
delirium	Pathology. a more or less temporary disorder of the mental faculties, as in fevers, disturbances of consciousness, or intoxication, characterized by restlessness, excitement, delusions, hallucinations, etc.	noun	14	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
delude	to mislead the mind or judgment of; deceive	verb (used with object)	10	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
deluge	a great 	noun	11	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
delusion	an act or instance of 	noun	12	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
delusive	tending to 	adjective	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
delve	to carry on intensive and thorough research for data, information, or the like; investigate	verb (used without object)	11	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
demagogue	a person, especially an orator or political leader, who gains power and popularity by arousing the emotions, passions, and prejudices of the people.	noun	18	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
demean	to lower in dignity, honor, or standing; debase	verb (used with object)	11	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
demeanor	conduct; behavior; deportment.	noun	13	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
demented	crazy; insane; mad.	adjective	14	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
demise	death or decease.	noun	10	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
demographic	of or relating to demography, the science of vital and social statistics.	adjective	25	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
demolition	an act or instance of 	noun	16	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
demoniac	of, relating to, or like a demon; demonic	adjective	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
demotic	of or relating to the ordinary, everyday, current form of a language; vernacular	adjective	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
demur	to make objection, especially on the grounds of scruples; take exception; object	verb (used without object)	10	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
demure	characterized by shyness and modesty; reserved.	adjective	11	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
denigrate	to speak damagingly of; criticize in a derogatory manner; sully; defame	verb (used with object)	13	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
denizen	an inhabitant; resident.	noun	19	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
denomination	a religious group, usually including many local churches, often larger than a sect	noun	19	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
denotation	the explicit or direct meaning or set of meanings of a word or expression, as distinguished from the ideas or meanings associated with it or suggested by it; the association or set of associations that a word usually elicits for most speakers of a language, as distinguished from those elicited for any individual speaker because of personal experience.	noun	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
denouement	the final resolution of the intricacies of a plot, as of a drama or novel.	noun	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
denounce	to condemn or censure openly or publicly	verb (used with object)	15	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
depict	to represent by or as if by painting; portray; delineate.	verb (used with object)	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
deplete	to decrease seriously or exhaust the abundance or supply of	verb (used with object)	12	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
deplore	to regret deeply or strongly; lament	verb (used with object)	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
deploy	Military. to spread out (troops) so as to form an extended front or line.	verb (used with object)	13	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
deport	to expel (an alien) from a country; banish.	verb (used with object)	10	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
depose	to remove from office or position, especially high office	verb (used with object)	10	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
deposition	removal from an office or position.	noun	15	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
depravity	the state of being 	noun	19	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
deprecate	to express earnest disapproval of.	verb (used with object)	16	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
depreciate	to reduce the purchasing value of (money).	verb (used with object)	17	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
depredation	the act of preying upon or plundering; robbery; ravage.	noun	17	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
deputize	to appoint as 	verb (used with object)	22	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
deranged		adjective	13	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
derelict	left or deserted, as by the owner or guardian; abandoned	adjective	13	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
dereliction	deliberate or conscious neglect; negligence; delinquency	noun	17	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
deride	to laugh at in scorn or contempt; scoff or jeer at; mock.	verb (used with object)	8	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
derision	ridicule; mockery	noun	10	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
derivation	the act or fact of deriving or of being derived.	noun	16	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
derivative		adjective	19	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
dermatologist	a specialist in 	noun	20	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
derogatory	tending to lessen the merit or reputation of a person or thing; disparaging; depreciatory	adjective	15	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
descry	to see (something unclear or distant) by looking carefully; discern; espy	verb (used with object)	12	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
desecrate	to divest of sacred or hallowed character or office.	verb (used with object)	13	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
deserts	a region so arid because of little rainfall that it supports only sparse and widely spaced vegetation or no vegetation at all	noun	7	11-All English speakers likely know this word
desiccate	to dry thoroughly; dry up.	verb (used with object)	16	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
desolate	barren or laid waste; devastated	adjective	10	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
desolate	barren or laid waste; devastated	adjective	10	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
desperado	a bold, reckless criminal or outlaw, especially in the early days of the American West.	noun	14	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
desperate	reckless or dangerous because of 	adjective	13	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
despise	to regard with contempt, distaste, disgust, or disdain; scorn; loathe.	verb (used with object)	11	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
despoil	to strip of possessions, things of value, etc.; rob; plunder; pillage.	verb (used with object)	12	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
despondent	feeling or showing profound hopelessness, dejection, discouragement, or gloom	adjective	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
despot	a king or other ruler with absolute, unlimited power; autocrat.	noun	10	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
destitute	without means of subsistence; lacking food, clothing, and shelter.	adjective	11	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
desultory	lacking in consistency, constancy, or visible order, disconnected; fitful	adjective	14	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
detached	not attached; separated	adjective	15	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
detain	to keep from proceeding; keep waiting; delay.	verb (used with object)	8	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
determinate	having defined limits; definite.	adjective	16	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
determination	the act of coming to a decision or of fixing or settling a purpose.	noun	19	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
deterrent	serving or tending to 	adjective	11	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
detonation	the act of 	noun	13	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
detraction	the act of disparaging or belittling the reputation or worth of a person, work, etc.	noun	15	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
detrimental	causing 	adjective	17	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
deviate	to turn aside, as from a route, way, course, etc.	verb (used without object)	12	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
devious	departing from the most direct way; circuitous; indirect	adjective	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
devise	to contrive, plan, or elaborate; invent from existing principles or ideas	verb (used with object)	11	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
devoid	not possessing, untouched by, void, or destitute (usually followed by of).	adjective	12	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
devolve	to transfer or delegate (a duty, responsibility, etc.) to or upon another; pass on.	verb (used with object)	17	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
devotee	a person who is greatly 	noun	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
devout	devoted to divine worship or service; pious; religious	adjective	12	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
dexterous	skillful or adroit in the use of the hands or body.	adjective	18	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
diabolical	having the qualities of a 	adjective	19	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
diadem	a crown.	noun	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
dialectical		adjective	20	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
diaphanous	very sheer and light; almost completely transparent or translucent.	adjective	18	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
diatribe	a bitter, sharply abusive denunciation, attack, or criticism	noun	12	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
dichotomy	division into two parts, kinds, etc.; subdivision into halves or pairs.	noun	20	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
dictum	an authoritative pronouncement; judicial assertion.	noun	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
didactic	intended for instruction; instructive	adjective	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
die	to cease to live; undergo the complete and permanent cessation of all vital functions; become dead.	verb (used without object)	4	5-All English speakers likely know this word
diffidence	the quality or state of being 	noun	22	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
diffuse	to pour out and spread, as a fluid.	verb (used with object)	15	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
dignitary	a person who holds a high rank or office, as in the government or church.	noun	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
digression	the act of 	noun	14	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
dilapidated	reduced to or fallen into partial ruin or decay, as from age, wear, or neglect.	adjective	18	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
dilate	to make wider or larger; cause to expand.	verb (used with object)	8	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
dilatory	tending to delay or procrastinate; slow; tardy.	adjective	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
dilemma	a situation requiring a choice between equally undesirable alternatives.	noun	15	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
dilettante	a person who takes up an art, activity, or subject merely for amusement, especially in a desultory or superficial way; dabbler.	noun	13	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
diligence	constant and earnest effort to accomplish what is undertaken; persistent exertion of body or mind.	noun	17	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
dilute	to make (a liquid) thinner or weaker by the addition of water or the like.	verb (used with object)	9	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
diminution	the act, fact, or process of 	noun	17	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
din	a loud, confused noise; a continued loud or tumultuous sound; noisy clamor.	noun	5	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
dinghy	any small boat designed as a tender or lifeboat, especially a small ship's boat, rowed, sailed, or driven by a motor.	noun	14	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
dingy	of a dark, dull, or dirty color or aspect; lacking brightness or freshness.	adjective	11	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
dint	force; power	noun	6	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
diorama	a scene, often in miniature, reproduced in three dimensions by placing objects, figures, etc., in front of a painted background.	noun	11	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
dire	causing or involving great fear or suffering; dreadful; terrible	adjective	5	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
dirge	a funeral song or tune, or one expressing mourning in commemoration of the dead.	noun	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
disabuse	to free (a person) from deception or error.	verb (used with object)	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
disaffected	discontented and disloyal, as toward the government or toward authority.	adjective	22	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
disapprobation	disapproval; condemnation.	noun	25	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
disarray	to put out of array or order; throw into disorder.	verb (used with object)	11	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
disavowal	a disowning; repudiation; denial.	noun	18	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
disband	to break up or dissolve (an organization)	verb (used with object)	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
disbar	to expel from the legal profession or from the 	verb (used with object)	10	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
disburse	to pay out (money), especially for expenses; expend.	verb (used with object)	13	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
discernible	capable of being 	adjective	20	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
discerning	showing good or outstanding judgment and understanding	adjective	18	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
disclaim	to deny or repudiate interest in or connection with; disavow; disown	verb (used with object)	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
disclose	to make known; reveal or uncover	verb (used with object)	13	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
discombobulated	to confuse or disconcert; upset; frustrate	verb (used with object)	31	79-Few English speakers likely know this word
discomfit	to confuse and deject; disconcert	verb (used with object)	19	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
discompose	to upset the order of; disarrange; disorder; unsettle	verb (used with object)	20	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
disconcert	to disturb the self-possession of; perturb; ruffle	verb (used with object)	18	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
disconsolate	without consolation or solace; hopelessly unhappy; inconsolable	adjective	18	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
discord	lack of concord or harmony between persons or things	noun	12	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
discordant	being at variance; disagreeing; incongruous	adjective	16	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
discount	to deduct a certain amount from (a bill, charge, etc.)	verb (used with object)	14	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
discourse	communication of thought by words; talk; conversation	noun	14	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
discredit	to injure the 	verb (used with object)	14	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
discrepancy	the state or quality of being 	noun	24	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
discrete	apart or detached from others; separate; distinct	adjective	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
discretion	the power or right to decide or act according to one's own judgment; freedom of judgment or choice	noun	15	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
discriminate	to make a distinction in favor of or against a person or thing on the basis of the group, class, or category to which the person or thing belongs rather than according to actual merit; show partiality	verb (used without object)	20	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
discriminating	differentiating; analytical.	adjective	25	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
discursive	passing aimlessly from one subject to another; digressive; rambling.	adjective	19	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
disdain	to look upon or treat with contempt; despise; scorn.	verb (used with object)	10	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
disembark	to go ashore from a ship.	verb (used without object)	20	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
disenfranchise	to disfranchise.	verb (used with object)	25	67-Few English speakers likely know this word
disengage	to release from attachment or connection; loosen; unfasten	verb (used with object)	15	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
disfigure	to mar the appearance or beauty of; deform; deface	verb (used with object)	16	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
disgorge	to eject or throw out from the throat, mouth, or stomach; vomit forth.	verb (used with object)	13	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
disgruntle	to put into a state of sulky dissatisfaction; make discontent.	verb (used with object)	16	67-Few English speakers likely know this word
dishearten	to depress the hope, courage, or spirits of; discourage.	verb (used with object)	14	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
disheveled	hanging loosely or in disorder; unkempt	adjective	19	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
dishonor	lack or loss of honor; disgraceful or dishonest character or conduct.	noun	12	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
disinclination	the absence of 	noun	22	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
disingenuous	lacking in frankness, candor, or sincerity; falsely or hypocritically 	adjective	19	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
disinter	to take out of the place of interment; exhume; unearth.	verb (used with object)	10	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
disinterested	unbiased by personal interest or advantage; not influenced by selfish motives	adjective	16	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
disjointed	having the joints or connections separated	adjective	22	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
disjunction	the act of disjoining or the state of being disjoined	noun	27	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
dislodge	to remove or force out of a particular place	verb (used with object)	13	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
dismantle	to deprive or strip of apparatus, furniture, equipment, defenses, etc.	verb (used with object)	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
dismember	to deprive of limbs; divide limb from limb	verb (used with object)	19	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
dismiss	to direct (an assembly of persons) to disperse or go	verb (used with object)	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
disparage	to speak of or treat slightingly; depreciate; belittle	verb (used with object)	15	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
disparate	distinct in kind; essentially different; dissimilar	adjective	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
disparity	lack of similarity or equality; inequality; difference	noun	15	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
dispassionate	free from or unaffected by passion; devoid of personal feeling or bias; impartial; calm	adjective	18	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
dispatch	to send off or away with speed, as a messenger, telegram, body of troops, etc.	verb (used with object)	17	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
dispel	to drive off in various directions; disperse; dissipate	verb (used with object)	11	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
dispense	to deal out; distribute	verb (used with object)	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
disperse	to drive or send off in various directions; scatter	verb (used with object)	12	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
dispirited	discouraged; dejected; disheartened; gloomy.	adjective	15	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
disport	to divert or amuse (oneself).	verb (used with object)	11	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
disproportion	lack of proportion; lack of proper relationship in size, number, etc.	noun	21	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
disputatious	fond of or given to 	adjective	18	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
disquietude	the state of disquiet; uneasiness.	noun	24	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
disquisition	a formal discourse or treatise in which a subject is examined and discussed; dissertation.	noun	24	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
dissection	the act of 	noun	15	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
dissemble	to give a false or misleading appearance to; conceal the truth or real nature of	verb (used with object)	17	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
disseminate	to scatter or spread widely, as though sowing seed; promulgate extensively; broadcast; disperse	verb (used with object)	16	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
dissension	strong disagreement; a contention or quarrel; discord.	noun	13	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
dissent	to differ in sentiment or opinion, especially from the majority; withhold assent; disagree (often followed by from)	verb (used without object)	9	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
dissertation	a written essay, treatise, or thesis, especially one written by a candidate for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy.	noun	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
dissident	a person who 	noun	12	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
dissimulate	to disguise or conceal under a false appearance; dissemble	verb (used with object)	17	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
dissipate	to scatter in various directions; disperse; dispel.	verb (used with object)	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
dissolution	the act or process of resolving or 	noun	15	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
dissonance	inharmonious or harsh sound; discord; cacophony.	noun	16	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
dissuade	to deter by advice or persuasion; persuade not to do something (often followed by from)	verb (used with object)	11	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
distant	far off or apart in space; not near at hand; remote or removed (often followed by from)	adjective	9	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
distend	to expand by stretching, as something hollow or elastic	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	10	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
distill	to subject to a process of vaporization and subsequent condensation, as for purification or concentration.	verb (used with object)	10	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
distinct		adjective	13	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
distinction	a marking off or 	noun	17	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
distinctive	serving to 	adjective	20	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
distort	to twist awry or out of shape; make crooked or deformed	verb (used with object)	8	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
distract	to draw away or divert, as the mind or attention	verb (used with object)	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
distrait	inattentive because of distracting worries, fears, etc.; absent-minded.	adjective	9	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
distraught	distracted; deeply agitated.	adjective	16	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
diurnal	of or relating to a day or each day; daily.	adjective	11	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
diva	a distinguished female singer; prima donna.	noun	9	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
diverge	to move, lie, or extend in different directions from a common point; branch off.	verb (used without object)	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
diverse	of a different kind, form, character, etc.; unlike	adjective	12	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
diversion	the act of 	noun	15	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
divest	to strip of clothing, ornament, etc.	verb (used with object)	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
divine	of or relating to a god, especially the Supreme Being.	adjective	12	8-All English speakers likely know this word
divulge	to disclose or reveal (something private, secret, or previously unknown).	verb (used with object)	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
docile	easily managed or handled; tractable	adjective	11	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
docket	Also called trial docket. a list of cases in court for trial, or the names of the parties who have cases pending.	noun	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
doctrinaire	a person who tries to apply some 	noun	16	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
doctrine	a particular principle, position, or policy taught or advocated, as of a religion or government	noun	13	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
document	a written or printed paper furnishing information or evidence, as a passport, deed, bill of sale, or bill of lading; a legal or official paper.	noun	17	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
doddering	shaky or trembling, as from old age; tottering	adjective	15	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
doff	to remove or take off, as clothing.	verb (used with object)	11	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
dogged	persistent in effort; stubbornly tenacious	adjective	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
doggerel	   comic or burlesque, and usually loose or irregular in measure.    rude; crude; poor.  	adjective	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
dogmatic	relating to or of the nature of a 	adjective	17	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
doldrums	a state of inactivity or stagnation, as in business or art	noun	15	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
dolorous	full of, expressing, or causing pain or sorrow; grievous; mournful	adjective	11	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
dolt	a dull, stupid person; blockhead.	noun	6	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
domicile	a place of residence; abode; house or home.	noun	16	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
dominant	ruling, governing, or controlling; having or exerting authority or influence	adjective	14	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
dominate	to rule over; govern; control.	verb (used with object)	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
domineer	to rule arbitrarily or despotically; tyrannize.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	13	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
don	(initial capital letter) Mr.; Sir	noun	5	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
doom	fate or destiny, especially adverse fate; unavoidable ill fortune	noun	8	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
dormant	lying asleep or as if asleep; inactive, as in sleep; torpid	adjective	12	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
dormer	Also called dormer window. a vertical window in a projection built out from a sloping roof.	noun	10	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
dorsal	of, relating to, or situated at the back, or dorsum.	adjective	8	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
dossier	a collection or file of documents on the same subject, especially a complete file containing detailed information about a person or topic.	noun	8	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
dotage	a decline of mental faculties, especially as associated with old age; senility.	noun	9	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
dote	to bestow or express excessive love or fondness habitually (usually followed by on or upon)	verb (used without object)	5	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
dour	sullen; gloomy	adjective	6	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
douse	to plunge into water or the like; drench	verb (used with object)	7	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
dowdy	not stylish; drab; old-fashioned	adjective	12	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
downcast	directed downward, as the eyes.	adjective	16	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
dowry	Also, 	noun	11	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
dowse		verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	9	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
doze	to sleep lightly or fitfully.	verb (used without object)	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
drab	dull; cheerless; lacking in spirit, brightness, etc.	adjective	8	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
draconian	of, relating to, or characteristic of the Athenian statesman 	adjective	15	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
draft	a drawing, sketch, or design.	noun	9	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
drama	a composition in prose or verse presenting in dialogue or pantomime a story involving conflict or contrast of character, especially one intended to be acted on the stage; a play.	noun	9	7-All English speakers likely know this word
drastic	acting with force or violence; violent.	adjective	11	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
draught	draughts, (used with a singular verb) British. the game of checkers.	noun	13	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
draw	to cause to move in a particular direction by or as if by a pulling force; pull; drag (often followed by along, away, in, out, or off).	verb (used with object)	8	4-All English speakers likely know this word
dregs	dregs, the sediment of liquids; lees; grounds.	noun	8	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
dribble	to fall or flow in drops or small quantities; trickle.	verb (used without object)	15	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
drip	to let drops fall; shed drops	verb (used without object)	8	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
drivel	saliva flowing from the mouth, or mucus from the nose; slaver.	noun	12	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
droll	amusing in an odd way; whimsically humorous; waggish.	adjective	8	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
drone	the male of the honeybee and other bees, stingless and making no honey.	noun	7	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
drone	the male of the honeybee and other bees, stingless and making no honey.	noun	7	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
droop	to sag, sink, bend, or hang down, as from weakness, exhaustion, or lack of support.	verb (used without object)	9	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
dross	waste matter; refuse.	noun	6	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
drudge	a person who does menial, distasteful, dull, or hard work.	noun	11	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
drudgery	menial, distasteful, dull, or hard work.	noun	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
dubious	doubtful; marked by or occasioning doubt	adjective	13	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
ductile	capable of being hammered out thin, as certain metals; malleable.	adjective	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
dulcet	pleasant to the ear; melodious	adjective	12	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
dull	not sharp; blunt	adjective	8	8-All English speakers likely know this word
dumbfound	to make speechless with amazement; astonish.	verb (used with object)	23	69-Few English speakers likely know this word
dummy	a representation or copy of something, as for displaying to indicate appearance	noun	15	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
dupe	a person who is easily deceived or fooled; gull.	noun	9	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
duplicity	deceitfulness in speech or conduct, as by speaking or acting in two different ways to different people concerning the same matter; double-dealing.  Synonyms	noun	20	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
duration	the length of time something continues or exists (often used with the).	noun	11	8-All English speakers likely know this word
duress	compulsion by threat or force; coercion; constraint.	noun	8	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
dutiful	performing the 	adjective	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
dwindle	to become smaller and smaller; shrink; waste away	verb (used without object)	14	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
dynamic	pertaining to or characterized by energy or effective action; vigorously active or forceful; energetic	adjective	17	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
dynamo	an electric generator, especially for direct current.	noun	13	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
dysentery	Pathology. an infectious disease marked by inflammation and ulceration of the lower part of the bowels, with 	noun	15	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
dyslexia	any of various reading disorders associated with impairment of the ability to interpret spatial relationships or to integrate auditory and visual information.	noun	19	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
dyspeptic	pertaining to, subject to, or suffering from 	adjective	21	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
earthly	of or relating to the 	adjective	12	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
earthy	of the nature of or consisting of 	adjective	10	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
ebb	the flowing back of the tide as the water returns to the sea (opposed to 	noun	9	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
ebullient	overflowing with fervor, enthusiasm, or excitement; high-spirited	adjective	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
eccentric	deviating from the recognized or customary character, practice, etc.; irregular; erratic; peculiar; odd	adjective	19	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
eccentricity	an oddity or peculiarity, as of conduct	noun	24	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
ecclesiastic	a member of the clergy or other person in religious orders.	noun	22	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
eclectic	selecting or choosing from various sources.	adjective	18	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
eclipse	Astronomy.    the obscuration of the light of the moon by the intervention of the earth between it and the sun (lunar eclipse) or the obscuration of the light of the sun by the intervention of the moon between it and a point on the earth (solar eclipse)    a similar phenomenon with respect to any other planet and either its satellite or the sun.    the partial or complete interception of the light of one component of a binary star by the other.  	noun	14	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
ecliptic	Astronomy.    the great circle formed by the intersection of the plane of the earth's orbit with the celestial sphere; the apparent annual path of the sun in the heavens.    an analogous great circle on a terrestrial globe.  	noun	18	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
ecologist	the branch of biology dealing with the relations and interactions between organisms and their environment, including other organisms.	noun	15	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
economy	thrifty management; frugality in the expenditure or consumption of money, materials, etc.	noun	16	10-All English speakers likely know this word
ecosystem	a system, or a group of interconnected elements, formed by the interaction of a community of organisms with their environment.	noun	17	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
ecstasy	rapturous delight.	noun	12	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
eddy	a current at variance with the main current in a stream of liquid or gas, especially one having a rotary or whirling motion.	noun	8	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
edict	a decree issued by a sovereign or other authority.  Synonyms	noun	9	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
edifice	a building, especially one of large size or imposing appearance.	noun	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
edify	to instruct or benefit, especially morally or spiritually; uplift	verb (used with object)	11	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
eerie	uncanny, so as to inspire superstitious fear; weird	adjective	5	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
efface	to wipe out; do away with; expunge	verb (used with object)	15	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
effective	adequate to accomplish a purpose; producing the intended or expected result	adjective	22	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
effectual	producing or capable of producing an intended effect; adequate.	adjective	20	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
effectuate	to bring about; 	verb (used with object)	20	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
effeminate	(of a man or boy) having traits, tastes, habits, etc., traditionally considered feminine, as softness or delicacy.	adjective	20	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
effervescence	to give off bubbles of gas, as fermenting liquors.	verb (used without object)	30	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
effete	lacking in wholesome vigor; degenerate; decadent	adjective	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
efficacy	capacity for producing a desired result or effect; effectiveness	noun	22	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
effigy	a representation or image, especially sculptured, as on a monument.	noun	16	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
effluvium	a slight or invisible exhalation or vapor, especially one that is disagreeable or noxious.	noun	25	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
effrontery	shameless or impudent boldness; barefaced audacity	noun	19	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
effulgent	shining forth brilliantly; radiant.	adjective	20	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
effusion	the act of effusing or pouring forth.	noun	16	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
egoism	the habit of valuing everything only in reference to one's personal interest; selfishness (opposed to 	noun	11	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
egotism	excessive and objectionable reference to oneself in conversation or writing; conceit; boastfulness.	noun	12	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
egotistical	pertaining to or characterized by 	adjective	17	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
egregious	extraordinary in some bad way; glaring; flagrant	adjective	14	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
egress	the act or an instance of going, especially from an enclosed place.	noun	8	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
ejaculation	an abrupt, exclamatory utterance.	noun	26	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
elaborate	worked out with great care and nicety of detail; executed with great minuteness	adjective	13	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
elaboration	an act or instance of 	noun	16	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
elastic	capable of returning to its original length, shape, etc., after being stretched, deformed, compressed, or expanded	adjective	11	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
elated	very happy or proud; jubilant; in high spirits	adjective	8	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
elegy	a mournful, melancholy, or plaintive poem, especially a funeral song or a lament for the dead.	noun	10	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
elevation	the height to which something is elevated or to which it rises	noun	15	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
elicit	to draw or bring out or forth; educe; evoke	verb (used with object)	10	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
elixir	Pharmacology. a sweetened, aromatic solution of alcohol and water containing, or used as a vehicle for, medicinal substances.	noun	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
ellipsis	Grammar.    the omission from a sentence or other construction of one or more words that would complete or clarify the construction, as the omission of who are, while I am, or while we are from I like to interview people sitting down.    the omission of one or more items from a construction in order to avoid repeating the identical or equivalent items that are in a preceding or following construction, as the omission of been to Paris from the second clause of I've been to Paris, but they haven't.  	noun	13	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
elliptical	pertaining to or having the form of an 	adjective	19	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
elope	to run off secretly to be married, usually without the consent or knowledge of one's parents.	verb (used without object)	9	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
eloquence	the practice or art of using language with fluency and aptness.	noun	24	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
elucidate	to make lucid or clear; throw light upon; explain	verb (used with object)	15	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
elusive		adjective	13	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
elysian	of, relating to, or resembling Elysium.	adjective	11	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
Elysium	Also called Elysian Fields. Classical Mythology. the abode of the blessed after death.	noun	0	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
emaciated	marked by 	adjective	16	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
emanate	to flow out, issue, or proceed, as from a source or origin; come forth; originate.  Synonyms	verb (used without object)	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
emancipate	to free from restraint, influence, or the like.	verb (used with object)	20	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
emasculate	to castrate.	verb (used with object)	18	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
embargo	an order of a government prohibiting the movement of merchant ships into or out of its ports.	noun	15	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
embark	to board a ship, aircraft, or other vehicle, as for a journey.	verb (used without object)	16	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
embed	to fix into a surrounding mass	verb (used with object)	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
embellish	to beautify by or as if by ornamentation; ornament; adorn.	verb (used with object)	19	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
embezzlement	to appropriate fraudulently to one's own use, as money or property entrusted to one's care.	verb (used with object)	41	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
embitter	to make 	verb (used with object)	14	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
emblazon	to depict, as on an escutcheon in heraldry.	verb (used with object)	25	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
embody	to give a concrete form to; express, personify, or exemplify in concrete form	verb (used with object)	15	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
emboss	to raise or represent (surface designs) in relief.	verb (used with object)	12	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
embrace	to take or clasp in the arms; press to the bosom; hug.	verb (used with object)	16	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
embroider	to decorate with ornamental needlework.	verb (used with object)	16	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
embroil	to bring into discord or conflict; involve in contention or strife.	verb (used with object)	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
embryonic	pertaining to or in the state of an 	adjective	21	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
emend	to edit or change (a text).	verb (used with object)	10	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
emetic	causing vomiting, as a medicinal substance.	adjective	12	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
eminent	high in station, rank, or repute; prominent; distinguished	adjective	12	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
emissary	a representative sent on a mission or errand	noun	13	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
emollient	having the power of softening or relaxing, as a medicinal substance; soothing, especially to the skin	adjective	15	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
emolument	profit, salary, or fees from office or employment; compensation for services	noun	18	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
empathy	the psychological identification with or vicarious experiencing of the feelings, thoughts, or attitudes of another.	noun	17	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
empirical	derived from or guided by experience or experiment.	adjective	19	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
emulate	to try to equal or excel; imitate with effort to equal or surpass	verb (used with object)	12	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
enact	to make into an act or statute	verb (used with object)	9	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
enamored	to fill or inflame with love (usually used in the passive and followed by of or sometimes with)	verb (used with object)	13	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
encipher	to convert (a message, communication, etc.) into 	verb (used with object)	17	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
encircle	to form a 	verb (used with object)	16	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
enclave	a country, or especially, an outlying portion of a country, entirely or mostly surrounded by the territory of another country.	noun	16	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
encomiastic	a person who utters or writes an encomium; eulogist.	noun	21	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
encompass	to form a circle about; encircle; surround	verb (used with object)	19	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
encroachment	an act or instance of 	noun	25	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
encumber	to impede or hinder; hamper; retard	verb (used with object)	19	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
endear	to make 	verb (used with object)	8	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
endearment	the act of 	noun	16	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
endemic	natural to or characteristic of a specific people or place; native; indigenous	adjective	15	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
endorse	to approve, support, or sustain	verb (used with object)	9	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
endue	to invest or endow with some gift, quality, or faculty.	verb (used with object)	8	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
enduring	lasting; permanent	adjective	14	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
energize	to give 	verb (used with object)	20	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
enervate	to deprive of force or strength; destroy the vigor of; weaken.  Synonyms	verb (used with object)	13	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
enfranchise	to grant a franchise to; admit to citizenship, especially to the right of voting.	verb (used with object)	21	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
engage	to occupy the attention or efforts of (a person or persons)	verb (used with object)	11	7-All English speakers likely know this word
engaged	busy or occupied; involved	adjective	13	11-All English speakers likely know this word
engaging	winning; attractive; pleasing	adjective	16	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
engender	to produce, cause, or give rise to	verb (used with object)	13	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
engross	to occupy completely, as the mind or attention; absorb	verb (used with object)	10	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
engulf	to swallow up in or as in a 	verb (used with object)	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
enhance	to raise to a higher degree; intensify; magnify	verb (used with object)	14	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
enigma	a puzzling or inexplicable occurrence or situation	noun	12	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
enjoin	to prescribe (a course of action) with authority or emphasis	verb (used with object)	17	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
enlist	to enroll, usually voluntarily, for military service	verb (used without object)	8	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
enliven	to make vigorous or active; invigorate	verb (used with object)	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
enmity	a feeling or condition of hostility; hatred; ill will; animosity; antagonism.	noun	12	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
ennui	a feeling of utter weariness and discontent resulting from satiety or lack of interest; boredom	noun	8	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
enormity	outrageous or heinous character; atrociousness	noun	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
enrapture	to move to 	verb (used with object)	14	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
ensconce	to settle securely or snugly	verb (used with object)	16	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
ensue	to follow in order; come afterward, especially in immediate succession	verb (used without object)	7	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
entail	to cause or involve by necessity or as a consequence	verb (used with object)	8	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
enterprise	a project undertaken or to be undertaken, especially one that is important or difficult or that requires boldness or energy	noun	14	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
enterprising	ready to undertake projects of importance or difficulty, or untried schemes; energetic in carrying out any undertaking	adjective	19	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
enthrall	to captivate or charm	verb (used with object)	13	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
entice	to lead on by exciting hope or desire; allure; inveigle	verb (used with object)	10	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
entity	something that has a real existence; thing	noun	9	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
entomology	the branch of zoology dealing with insects.	noun	19	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
entourage	a group of attendants or associates, as of a person of rank or importance	noun	13	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
entrance	an act of entering, as into a place or upon new duties.	noun	13	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
entreat	to ask (a person) earnestly; beseech; implore; beg	verb (used with object)	8	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
entree	a dish served as the main course of a meal.	noun	7	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
entrepreneur	a person who organizes and manages any enterprise, especially a business, usually with considerable initiative and risk.	noun	18	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
enumerate	to mention separately as if in counting; name one by one; specify, as in a list	verb (used with object)	14	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
enunciate	to utter or pronounce (words, sentences, etc.), especially in an articulate or a particular manner	verb (used with object)	15	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
environ	to form a circle or ring round; surround; envelop	verb (used with object)	13	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
eon	an indefinitely long period of time; age.	noun	4	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
epaulet	an ornamental shoulder piece worn on uniforms, chiefly by military officers.	noun	12	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
ephemeral	lasting a very short time; short-lived; transitory	adjective	18	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
epic	noting or pertaining to a long poetic composition, usually centered upon a hero, in which a series of great achievements or events is narrated in elevated style	adjective	10	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
epicure	a person who cultivates a refined taste, especially in food and wine; connoisseur.	noun	14	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
Epicurean	fond of or adapted to luxury or indulgence in sensual pleasures; having luxurious tastes or habits, especially in eating and drinking.	adjective	17	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
epigram	any witty, ingenious, or pointed saying tersely expressed.	noun	15	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
epilogue	a concluding part added to a literary work, as a novel.	noun	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
episodic	pertaining to or of the nature of an 	adjective	15	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
epistemologist	a branch of philosophy that investigates the origin, nature, methods, and limits of human knowledge.	noun	23	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
epitaph	a commemorative inscription on a tomb or mortuary monument about the person buried at that site.	noun	15	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
epithet	any word or phrase applied to a person or thing to describe an actual or attributed quality	noun	12	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
epitome	a person or thing that is typical of or possesses to a high degree the features of a whole class	noun	13	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
epoch	a particular period of time marked by distinctive features, events, etc.	noun	13	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
equable	free from many changes or variations; uniform	adjective	21	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
equanimity	mental or emotional stability or composure, especially under tension or strain; calmness; equilibrium.	noun	26	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
equestrian	of or relating to horseback riding or horseback riders	adjective	21	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
equilibrium	a state of rest or balance due to the equal action of opposing forces.	noun	29	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
equine	of, relating to, or resembling a horse	adjective	17	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
equinox	the time when the sun crosses the plane of the earth's equator, making night and day of approximately equal length all over the earth and occurring about March 21 (vernal equinox or spring equinox) and September 22 (autumnal equinox)	noun	25	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
equipoise	an equal distribution of weight; even balance; equilibrium.	noun	22	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
equitable	characterized by equity or fairness; just and right; fair; reasonable	adjective	23	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
equity	the quality of being fair or impartial; fairness; impartiality	noun	18	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
equivocal	allowing the possibility of several different meanings, as a word or phrase, especially with intent to deceive or misguide; susceptible of double interpretation; deliberately ambiguous	adjective	27	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
equivocate	to use ambiguous or unclear expressions, usually to avoid commitment or in order to mislead; prevaricate or hedge	verb (used without object)	27	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
erode	to eat into or away; destroy by slow consumption or disintegration	verb (used with object)	6	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
erotic	arousing or satisfying sexual desire	adjective	9	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
errant	deviating from the regular or proper course; 	adjective	7	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
erratic	deviating from the usual or proper course in conduct or opinion; eccentric; queer	adjective	10	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
erroneous	containing error; mistaken; incorrect; wrong	adjective	11	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
erudite	characterized by great knowledge; learned or scholarly	adjective	9	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
escapade	a reckless adventure or wild prank.	noun	15	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
eschew	to abstain or keep away from; shun; avoid	verb (used with object)	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
esoteric	understood by or meant for only the select few who have special knowledge or interest; recondite	adjective	11	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
espionage	the act or practice of spying.	noun	15	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
espouse	to make one's own; adopt or embrace, as a cause.	verb (used with object)	11	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
esteem	to regard highly or favorably; regard with respect or admiration	verb (used with object)	9	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
estranged	displaying or evincing a feeling of alienation; alienated.	adjective	13	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
ethereal	light, airy, or tenuous	adjective	11	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
ethnic	pertaining to or characteristic of a people, especially a group (ethnic group) sharing a common and distinctive culture, religion, language, or the like.	adjective	12	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
ethnology	a branch of anthropology that analyzes cultures, especially in regard to their historical development and the similarities and dissimilarities between them.	noun	17	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
ethos	Sociology. the fundamental character or spirit of a culture; the underlying sentiment that informs the beliefs, customs, or practices of a group or society; dominant assumptions of a people or period	noun	7	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
etymology	the derivation of a word.  Synonyms	noun	19	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
eugenic	of or bringing about improvement in the type of offspring produced.	adjective	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
eulogistic	pertaining to or containing 	adjective	17	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
eulogy	a speech or writing in praise of a person or thing, especially a set oration in honor of a deceased person.	noun	12	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
euphemism	the substitution of a mild, indirect, or vague expression for one thought to be offensive, harsh, or blunt.	noun	21	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
euphony	agreeableness of sound; pleasing effect to the ear, especially a pleasant sounding or harmonious combination or succession of words	noun	16	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
euphoria	a state of intense happiness and self-confidence	noun	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
euthanasia	Also called 	noun	14	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
evanescent	vanishing; fading away; fleeting.	adjective	19	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
evasive	tending or seeking to 	adjective	15	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
evenhanded	impartial; equitable	adjective	20	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
eventual	happening at some indefinite future time or after a series of occurrences; ultimate	adjective	15	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
evince	to show clearly; make evident or manifest; prove.	verb (used with object)	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
evocative	tending to 	adjective	20	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
evoke	to call up or produce (memories, feelings, etc.)	verb (used with object)	13	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
ewe	a female sheep, especially when fully mature.	noun	6	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
exacerbate	to increase the severity, bitterness, or violence of (disease, ill feeling, etc.); aggravate.	verb (used with object)	23	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
exact	strictly accurate or correct	adjective	15	9-All English speakers likely know this word
exacting	rigid or severe in demands or requirements	adjective	21	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
exalt	to raise in rank, honor, power, character, quality, etc.; elevate	verb (used with object)	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
exasperate	to irritate or provoke to a high degree; annoy extremely	verb (used with object)	20	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
except	with the exclusion of; excluding; save; but	preposition	19	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
exceptionable	liable to 	adjective	31	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
excerpt	a passage or quotation taken or selected from a book, document, film, or the like; extract.	noun	20	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
exchequer	a treasury, as of a state or nation.	noun	31	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
excise	an internal tax or duty on certain commodities, as liquor or tobacco, levied on their manufacture, sale, or consumption within the country.	noun	16	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
exclaim	to cry out or speak suddenly and vehemently, as in surprise, strong emotion, or protest.	verb (used without object)	21	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
excoriate	to denounce or berate severely; flay verbally	verb (used with object)	19	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
exculpate	to clear from a charge of guilt or fault; free from blame; vindicate.	verb (used with object)	24	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
execrable	utterly detestable; abominable; abhorrent.	adjective	23	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
execrate	to detest utterly; abhor; abominate.	verb (used with object)	18	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
execute	to carry out; accomplish	verb (used with object)	18	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
executioner	an official who inflicts capital punishment in pursuance of a legal warrant.	noun	23	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
executive	a person or group of persons having administrative or supervisory authority in an organization.	noun	24	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
executor	a person who 	noun	19	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
exegesis	critical explanation or interpretation of a text or portion of a text, especially of the Bible.	noun	17	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
exemplary	worthy of imitation; commendable	adjective	25	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
exemplify	to show or illustrate by 	verb (used with object)	28	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
exempt	to free from an obligation or liability to which others are subject; release	verb (used with object)	19	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
exertion	vigorous action or effort	noun	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
exhale	to emit breath or vapor; breathe out.	verb (used without object)	16	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
exhilarating	to enliven; invigorate; stimulate	verb (used with object)	25	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
exhort	to urge, advise, or caution earnestly; admonish urgently.	verb (used with object)	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
exhume	to dig (something buried, especially a dead body) out of the earth; disinter.	verb (used with object)	19	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
exigency		noun	23	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
exiguous	scanty; meager; small; slender	adjective	19	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
existential	pertaining to 	adjective	20	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
exodus	a going out; a departure or emigration, usually of a large number of people	noun	15	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
exonerate	to clear, as of an accusation; free from guilt or blame; exculpate	verb (used with object)	17	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
exorbitant	exceeding the bounds of custom, propriety, or reason, especially in amount or extent; highly excessive	adjective	21	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
exorcise	to seek to expel (an evil spirit) by adjuration or religious or solemn ceremonies	verb (used with object)	18	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
exotic	of foreign origin or character; not native; introduced from abroad, but not fully naturalized or acclimatized	adjective	16	10-All English speakers likely know this word
expansive	having a wide range or extent; comprehensive; extensive	adjective	24	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
expatiate	to enlarge in discourse or writing; be copious in description or discussion	verb (used without object)	19	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
expatriate	to banish (a person) from his or her native country.	verb (used with object)	20	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
expedient	tending to promote some proposed or desired object; fit or suitable for the purpose; proper under the circumstances	adjective	21	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
expedite	to speed up the progress of; hasten	verb (used with object)	19	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
expeditious	characterized by promptness; quick	adjective	23	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
expenditure	the act of 	noun	24	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
expertise		noun	19	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
expiate	to atone for; make amends or reparation for	verb (used with object)	17	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
expletive	an interjectory word or expression, frequently profane; an exclamatory oath.	noun	24	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
explicate	to make plain or clear; explain; interpret.	verb (used with object)	23	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
explicit	fully and clearly expressed or demonstrated; leaving nothing merely implied; unequivocal	adjective	22	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
exploit	a striking or notable deed; feat; spirited or heroic act	noun	18	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
exploit	a striking or notable deed; feat; spirited or heroic act	noun	18	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
expose	to lay open to danger, attack, harm, etc.	verb (used with object)	16	9-All English speakers likely know this word
expository	of the nature of exposition; serving to 	adjective	22	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
expostulation	the act of 	noun	26	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
exposure	the act of exposing, laying open, or uncovering	noun	19	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
expound	to set forth or state in detail	verb (used with object)	20	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
expropriate	to take possession of, especially for public use by the right of eminent domain, thus divesting the title of the private owner	verb (used with object)	24	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
expunge	to strike or blot out; erase; obliterate.	verb (used with object)	21	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
expurgate	to amend by removing words, passages, etc., deemed offensive or objectionable	verb (used with object)	22	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
exquisite	of special beauty or charm, or rare and appealing excellence, as a face, a flower, coloring, music, or poetry.	adjective	26	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
extant	in existence; still existing; not destroyed or lost	adjective	14	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
extemporaneous	done, spoken, performed, etc., without special advance preparation; impromptu	adjective	29	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
extenuate	to represent (a fault, offense, etc.) as less serious	verb (used with object)	18	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
extirpate	to remove or destroy totally; do away with; exterminate.	verb (used with object)	19	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
extol	to praise highly; laud; eulogize	verb (used with object)	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
extort	Law.    to wrest or wring (money, information, etc.) from a person by violence, intimidation, or abuse of authority; obtain by force, torture, threat, or the like.    to take illegally by reason of one's office.  	verb (used with object)	13	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
extradition	the procedure by which a state or nation, upon receipt of a formal request by another state or nation, turns over to that second jurisdiction an individual charged with or convicted of a crime in that jurisdiction.	noun	20	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
extraneous	introduced or coming from without; not belonging or proper to a thing; external; foreign	adjective	19	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
extrapolate	to infer (an unknown) from something that is known; conjecture.	verb (used with object)	22	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
extricate	to free or release from entanglement; disengage	verb (used with object)	19	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
extrinsic	not essential or inherent; not a basic part or quality; extraneous	adjective	20	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
extrovert	an outgoing, gregarious person.	noun	20	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
extrude	to thrust out; force or press out; expel	verb (used with object)	16	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
exuberance	Also, exuberancy. the state of being 	noun	25	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
exude	to come out gradually in drops, as sweat, through pores or small openings; ooze out.	verb (used without object)	14	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
exult	to show or feel a lively or triumphant joy; rejoice exceedingly; be highly elated or jubilant	verb (used without object)	14	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
fabricate	to make by art or skill and labor; construct	verb (used with object)	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
facade	Architecture.    the front of a building, especially an imposing or decorative one.    any side of a building facing a public way or space and finished accordingly.  	noun	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
facet	one of the small, polished plane surfaces of a cut gem.	noun	11	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
facetious	not meant to be taken seriously or literally	adjective	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
facile	moving, acting, working, proceeding, etc., with ease, sometimes with superficiality	adjective	13	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
facilitate	to make easier or less difficult; help forward (an action, a process, etc.)	verb (used with object)	17	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
facsimile	an exact copy, as of a book, painting, or manuscript.	noun	19	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
faction	a group or clique within a larger group, party, government, organization, or the like	noun	14	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
factious	given to 	adjective	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
factitious	not spontaneous or natural; artificial; contrived	adjective	17	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
factotum	a person, as a handyman or servant, employed to do all kinds of work around the house.	noun	18	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
faculty	an ability, natural or acquired, for a particular kind of action	noun	17	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
fake	prepare or make (something specious, deceptive, or fraudulent)	verb (used with object)	11	9-All English speakers likely know this word
fallacious	containing a 	adjective	19	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
fallible	(of persons) liable to err, especially in being deceived or mistaken.	adjective	17	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
fallow	(of land) plowed and left unseeded for a season or more; uncultivated.	adjective	14	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
falsify	to make false or incorrect, especially so as to deceive	verb (used with object)	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
falter	to hesitate or waver in action, purpose, intent, etc.; give way	verb (used without object)	10	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
fanaticism	fanatical character, spirit, or conduct.	noun	20	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
fancied	unreal; imaginary	adjective	15	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
fancier	a person having a liking for or interest in something; enthusiast	noun	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
fanciful	characterized by or showing 	adjective	20	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
fancy	imagination or fantasy, especially as exercised in a capricious manner.	noun	14	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
fanfare	a flourish or short air played on trumpets or the like.	noun	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
farce	a light, humorous play in which the plot depends upon a skillfully exploited situation rather than upon the development of character.	noun	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
far-fetched	improbable; not naturally pertinent; being only remotely connected; forced; strained	adjective	6	73-Few English speakers likely know this word
fashion	a prevailing custom or style of dress, etiquette, socializing, etc.	noun	13	10-All English speakers likely know this word
fastidious	excessively particular, critical, or demanding; hard to please	adjective	15	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
fatalism	the acceptance of all things and events as inevitable; submission to fate	noun	15	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
fathom	a unit of length equal to six feet (1.8 meters)	noun	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
fathomless	impossible to measure the depth of; bottomless.	adjective	19	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
fatuous	foolish or inane, especially in an unconscious, complacent manner; silly.	adjective	12	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
fauna	the animals of a given region or period considered as a whole.	noun	10	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
favoritism	the favoring of one person or group over others with equal claims; partiality	noun	20	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
fawning	a young deer, especially an unweaned one.	noun	17	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
faze	to cause to be disturbed or disconcerted; daunt	verb (used with object)	16	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
feasible	capable of being done, effected, or accomplished	adjective	15	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
feature	a prominent or conspicuous part or characteristic	noun	11	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
febrile	pertaining to or marked by fever; feverish.	adjective	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
fecundity	the quality of being 	noun	20	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
feebleminded	lacking the normal mental powers.	adjective	25	82-Few English speakers likely know this word
feign	to represent fictitiously; put on an appearance of	verb (used with object)	11	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
feint	a movement made in order to deceive an adversary; an attack aimed at one place or point merely as a distraction from the real place or point of attack	noun	9	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
felicitous	well-suited for the occasion, as an action, manner, or expression; apt; appropriate	adjective	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
felicity	the state of being happy, especially in a high degree; bliss	noun	17	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
feline	belonging or pertaining to the cat family, Felidae.	adjective	11	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
fell	simple past tense of 	verb	9	7-All English speakers likely know this word
fell	simple past tense of 	verb	9	7-All English speakers likely know this word
felon	Law. a person who has committed a felony.	noun	10	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
feral	existing in a natural state, as animals or plants; not domesticated or cultivated; wild.	adjective	9	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
ferment	Also called organized ferment. any of a group of living organisms, as yeasts, molds, and certain bacteria, that cause 	noun	14	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
fermentation	the act or process of 	noun	20	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
ferocious	savagely fierce, as a wild beast, person, action, or aspect; violently cruel	adjective	16	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
ferret	a domesticated, usually red-eyed, and albinic variety of the polecat, used in Europe for driving rabbits and rats from their burrows.	noun	9	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
fertile	bearing, producing, or capable of producing vegetation, crops, etc., abundantly; prolific	adjective	11	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
fervent	having or showing great warmth or intensity of spirit, feeling, enthusiasm, etc.; ardent	adjective	15	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
fervid	heated or vehement in spirit, enthusiasm, etc.	adjective	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
fervor	great warmth and earnestness of feeling	noun	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
fester	to form pus; generate purulent matter; suppurate.	verb (used without object)	9	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
festive	pertaining to or suitable for a feast or 	adjective	14	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
fete	a day of celebration; holiday	noun	7	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
fetid	having an offensive odor; stinking.	adjective	9	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
fetish	an object regarded with awe as being the embodiment or habitation of a potent spirit or as having magical potency.	noun	11	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
fetter	a chain or shackle placed on the feet.	noun	9	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
feud	Also called 	noun	9	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
fiasco	a complete and ignominious failure.	noun	12	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
fiat	an authoritative decree, sanction, or order	noun	7	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
fickle	likely to change, especially due to caprice, irresolution, or instability; casually changeable	adjective	17	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
fictitious	created, taken, or assumed for the sake of concealment; not genuine; false	adjective	17	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
fidelity	strict observance of promises, duties, etc.	noun	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
fiend	Satan; the devil.	noun	10	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
figment	a mere product of mental invention; a fantastic notion	noun	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
figurative	of the nature of or involving a 	adjective	20	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
figure	a numerical symbol, especially an Arabic numeral.	noun	12	8-All English speakers likely know this word
figurine	a small ornamental figure of pottery, metal, plastic, etc.; statuette.	noun	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
filch	to steal (especially something of small value); pilfer	verb (used with object)	14	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
filial	of, relating to, or befitting a son or daughter	adjective	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
filibuster	U.S. Politics.    the use of irregular or obstructive tactics by a member of a legislative assembly to prevent the adoption of a measure generally favored or to force a decision against the will of the majority.    an exceptionally long speech, as one lasting for a day or days, or a series of such speeches to accomplish this purpose.    a member of a legislature who makes such a speech.  	noun	18	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
filigree	delicate ornamental work of fine silver, gold, or other metal wires, especially lacy jewelers' work of scrolls and arabesques.	noun	14	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
filing	a folder, cabinet, or other container in which papers, letters, etc., are arranged in convenient order for storage or reference.	noun	13	6-All English speakers likely know this word
filth	offensive or disgusting dirt or refuse; foul matter	noun	11	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
finale	the last piece, division, or movement of a concert, opera, or composition.	noun	11	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
finery		noun	12	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
finesse	extreme delicacy or subtlety in action, performance, skill, discrimination, taste, etc.	noun	11	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
finicky	excessively particular or fastidious; difficult to please; fussy.	adjective	20	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
finish	to bring (something) to an end or to completion; complete	verb (used with object)	12	6-All English speakers likely know this word
finished	ended or completed.	adjective	15	10-All English speakers likely know this word
finite	having bounds or limits; not infinite; measurable.	adjective	10	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
firebrand	a piece of burning wood or other material.	noun	17	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
fissure	a narrow opening produced by 	noun	11	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
fit	adapted or suited; appropriate	adjective	6	2-All English speakers likely know this word
fitful	coming, appearing, acting, etc., in 	adjective	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
flaccid	soft and limp; not firm; flabby	adjective	18	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
flag	a piece of cloth, varying in size, shape, color, and design, usually attached at one edge to a staff or cord, and used as the symbol of a nation, state, or organization, as a means of signaling, etc.; ensign; standard; banner; pennant.	noun	10	7-All English speakers likely know this word
flagrant	shockingly noticeable or evident; obvious; glaring	adjective	15	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
flail	an instrument for threshing grain, consisting of a staff or handle to one end of which is attached a freely swinging stick or bar.	noun	10	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
flair	a natural talent, aptitude, or ability; bent; knack	noun	9	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
flamboyant	strikingly bold or brilliant; showy	adjective	23	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
flashy	sparkling or brilliant, especially in a superficial way or for the moment	adjective	14	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
flaunt	to parade or display oneself conspicuously, defiantly, or boldly.	verb (used without object)	12	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
flay	to strip off the skin or outer covering of.	verb (used with object)	10	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
fleck	a speck; a small bit	noun	16	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
fledgling	a young bird just 	noun	20	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
fleece	the coat of wool that covers a sheep or a similar animal.	noun	13	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
fleet	the largest organized unit of naval ships grouped for tactical or other purposes.	noun	9	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
flick	a sudden light blow or tap, as with a whip or the finger	noun	16	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
flicker	to burn unsteadily; shine with a wavering light	verb (used without object)	18	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
flighty	given to 	adjective	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
flinch	to draw back or shrink, as from what is dangerous, difficult, or unpleasant.	verb (used without object)	16	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
flip	to toss or put in motion with a sudden impulse, as with a snap of a finger and thumb, especially so as to cause to turn over in the air	verb (used with object)	11	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
flippant	frivolously disrespectful, shallow, or lacking in seriousness; characterized by levity	adjective	19	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
flirt	to court triflingly or act amorously without serious intentions; play at love; coquet.	verb (used without object)	9	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
flit	to move lightly and swiftly; fly, dart, or skim along	verb (used without object)	8	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
floe	Also called 	noun	8	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
flora	the plants of a particular region or period, listed by species and considered as a whole.	noun	9	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
florescence	the act, state, or period of flowering; bloom.	noun	22	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
florid	reddish; ruddy; rosy	adjective	11	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
flotsam	the part of the wreckage of a ship and its cargo found floating on the water.  Compare  	noun	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
flounder	to struggle with stumbling or plunging movements (usually followed by about, along, on, through, etc.)	verb (used without object)	15	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
flourish	to be in a vigorous state; thrive	verb (used without object)	15	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
flout	to treat with disdain, scorn, or contempt; scoff at; mock	verb (used with object)	10	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
flowery	covered with or having many 	adjective	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
fluctuate	to change continually; shift back and forth; vary irregularly	verb (used without object)	18	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
fluency	spoken or written with ease	adjective	18	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
fluke	the part of an anchor that catches in the ground, especially the flat triangular piece at the end of each arm.	noun	14	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
flush	a blush; rosy glow	noun	12	10-All English speakers likely know this word
fluster	to put into a state of agitated confusion	verb (used with object)	12	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
fluted	fine, clear, and mellow; flutelike	adjective	12	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
flutter	to wave, flap, or toss about	verb (used without object)	12	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
flux	a flowing or flow.	noun	16	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
fodder	coarse food for livestock, composed of entire plants, including leaves, stalks, and grain, of such forages as corn and sorghum.	noun	11	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
foible	a minor weakness or failing of character; slight flaw or defect	noun	13	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
foil	to prevent the success of; frustrate; balk	verb (used with object)	8	11-All English speakers likely know this word
foil	to prevent the success of; frustrate; balk	verb (used with object)	8	11-All English speakers likely know this word
foist	to force upon or impose fraudulently or unjustifiably (usually followed by on or upon)	verb (used with object)	8	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
foliage	the leaves of a plant, collectively; leafage.	noun	13	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
foment	to instigate or foster (discord, rebellion, etc.); promote the growth or development of	verb (used with object)	13	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
foolhardy	recklessly or thoughtlessly bold; foolishly rash or venturesome.	adjective	18	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
foppish	resembling or befitting a 	adjective	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
foray	a quick raid, usually for the purpose of taking plunder	noun	10	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
forbearance	the act of 	noun	21	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
ford	a place where a river or other body of water is shallow enough to be crossed by wading.	noun	8	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
forebears	Usually, forebears. ancestors; forefathers.	noun	15	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
foreboding	a prediction; portent.	noun	20	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
forensic	pertaining to, connected with, or used in courts of law or public discussion and debate.	adjective	15	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
forerunner	predecessor; ancestor; forebear; precursor.	noun	16	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
foreshadow	to show or indicate beforehand; prefigure	verb (used with object)	19	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
foresight	care or provision for the future; provident care; prudence.	noun	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
forestall	to prevent, hinder, or thwart by action in advance	verb (used with object)	14	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
forfeit	a fine; penalty.	noun	13	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
forge	to form by heating and hammering; beat into shape.	verb (used with object)	10	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
forgo	to abstain or refrain from; do without.	verb (used with object)	10	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
forlorn	desolate or dreary; unhappy or miserable, as in feeling, condition, or appearance.	adjective	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
formality	condition or quality of being 	noun	18	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
formidable	causing fear, apprehension, or dread	adjective	21	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
forsake	to quit or leave entirely; abandon; desert	verb (used with object)	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
forswear	to reject or renounce under oath	verb (used with object)	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
forte	a person's strong suit, or most highly developed characteristic, talent, or skill; something that one excels in	noun	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
forthcoming		adjective	25	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
forthright	going straight to the point; frank; direct; outspoken	adjective	19	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
fortitude	mental and emotional strength in facing difficulty, adversity, danger, or temptation courageously	noun	14	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
fortuitous	happening or produced by chance; accidental	adjective	15	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
forum	the marketplace or public square of an ancient Roman city, the center of judicial and business affairs and a place of assembly for the people.	noun	12	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
forward	toward or at a place, point, or time in advance; onward; 	adverb	14	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
foster	to promote the growth or development of; further; encourage	verb (used with object)	9	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
foul	grossly offensive to the senses; disgustingly loathsome; noisome	adjective	9	11-All English speakers likely know this word
founder	a person who 	noun	13	7-All English speakers likely know this word
founder	a person who 	noun	13	7-All English speakers likely know this word
fracas	a noisy, disorderly disturbance or fight; riotous brawl; uproar.	noun	12	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
fractious	refractory or unruly	adjective	16	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
frail	having delicate health; not robust; weak	adjective	9	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
franchise	a privilege of a public nature conferred on an individual, group, or company by a government	noun	18	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
frantic	desperate or wild with excitement, passion, fear, pain, etc.; frenzied.	adjective	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
fraudulent	characterized by, involving, or proceeding from 	adjective	18	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
fraught	Archaic. filled or laden (with)	adjective	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
fray	a fight, battle, or skirmish.  Synonyms	noun	9	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
freebooter	a person who goes about in search of plunder; pirate; buccaneer.	noun	16	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
frenetic		adjective	15	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
frenzied	wildly excited or enthusiastic	adjective	22	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
fresco	Also called 	noun	12	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
fret	to feel or express worry, annoyance, discontent, or the like	verb (used without object)	7	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
friction	surface resistance to relative motion, as of a body sliding or rolling.	noun	15	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
frieze	Architecture.    the part of a classical entablature between the architrave and the cornice, usually decorated with sculpture in low relief.    any decorative band on an outside wall, broader than a stringcourse and bearing lettering, sculpture, etc.  	noun	18	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
frigid	very cold in temperature	adjective	12	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
fringe	a decorative border of thread, cord, or the like, usually hanging loosely from a raveled edge or separate strip.	noun	12	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
frisk	to dance, leap, skip, or gambol; frolic	verb (used without object)	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
fritter	to squander or disperse piecemeal; waste little by little (usually followed by away)	verb (used with object)	10	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
frivolous	characterized by lack of seriousness or sense	adjective	18	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
frock	a gown or dress worn by a girl or woman.	noun	15	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
frolic	merry play; merriment; gaiety; fun.	noun	13	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
frolicsome	merrily playful; full of fun.	adjective	20	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
frond	an often large, finely divided leaf, especially as applied to the ferns and certain palms.	noun	10	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
fructify	to bear 	verb (used without object)	20	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
frugal	economical in use or expenditure; prudently saving or sparing; not wasteful	adjective	13	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
fruitful	producing good results; beneficial; profitable	adjective	17	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
fruition	attainment of anything desired; realization; accomplishment	noun	13	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
frustrate	to make (plans, efforts, etc.) worthless or of no avail; defeat; nullify	verb (used with object)	13	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
fuddle	to muddle or confuse	verb (used with object)	13	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
fugitive	a person who is fleeing, from prosecution, intolerable circumstances, etc.; a runaway	noun	18	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
fulcrum	the support, or point of rest, on which a lever turns in moving a body.	noun	19	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
fulminate	to explode with a loud noise; detonate.	verb (used without object)	18	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
fulsome	offensive to good taste, especially as being excessive; overdone or gross	adjective	15	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
fumble	to feel or grope about clumsily	verb (used without object)	17	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
functional	of or relating to a 	adjective	20	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
functionary	a person who 	noun	22	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
fundamental	serving as, or being an essential part of, a foundation or basis; basic; underlying	adjective	22	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
funereal	of or suitable for a 	adjective	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
furor	a general outburst of enthusiasm, excitement, controversy, or the like.	noun	9	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
furrow	a narrow groove made in the ground, especially by a plow.	noun	13	10-All English speakers likely know this word
furtive	taken, done, used, etc., surreptitiously or by stealth; secret	adjective	15	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
fusillade	a simultaneous or continuous discharge of firearms.	noun	16	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
fusion	the act or process of fusing; the state of being fused.	noun	11	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
fuss	an excessive display of anxious attention or activity; needless or useless bustle	noun	8	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
fussy	excessively busy with trifles; anxious or particular about petty details.	adjective	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
futile	incapable of producing any result; ineffective; useless; not successful	adjective	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
gadfly	any of various 	noun	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
gaffe	a social blunder; faux pas.	noun	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
gainsay	to deny, dispute, or contradict.	verb (used with object)	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
gait	a manner of walking, stepping, or running.	noun	6	8-All English speakers likely know this word
galaxy	Astronomy.    a large system of stars held together by mutual gravitation and isolated from similar systems by vast regions of space.    (usually initial capital letter) 	noun	18	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
gale	a very strong wind.	noun	7	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
gall	impudence; effrontery.	noun	8	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
galleon	a large sailing vessel of the 15th to the 17th centuries used as a fighting or merchant ship, square-rigged on the foremast and mainmast and generally lateen-rigged on one or two after masts.	noun	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
galley	a kitchen or an area with kitchen facilities in a ship, plane, or camper.	noun	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
gallows	a wooden frame, consisting of a crossbeam on two uprights, on which condemned persons are executed by hanging.	noun	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
galvanic	pertaining to or produced by 	adjective	19	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
galvanize	to stimulate by or as if by a 	verb (used with object)	26	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
gambit	Chess. an opening in which a player seeks to obtain some advantage by sacrificing a pawn or piece.	noun	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
gambol	to skip about, as in dancing or playing; frolic.	verb (used without object)	15	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
gamely	in a 	adverb	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
gamut	the entire scale or range	noun	11	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
gangrene	necrosis or death of soft tissue due to obstructed circulation, usually followed by decomposition and putrefaction.	noun	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
gape	to stare with open mouth, as in wonder.	verb (used without object)	9	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
garbled	to confuse unintentionally or ignorantly; jumble	verb (used with object)	14	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
gargantuan	gigantic; enormous; colossal	adjective	17	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
gargoyle	a grotesquely carved figure of a human or animal.	noun	15	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
garish	crudely or tastelessly colorful, showy, or elaborate, as clothes or decoration.	adjective	10	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
garner	to gather or deposit in or as if in a granary or other storage place.	verb (used with object)	9	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
garnish	to provide or supply with something ornamental; adorn; decorate.	verb (used with object)	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
garrulous	excessively talkative in a rambling, roundabout manner, especially about trivial matters.	adjective	14	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
gastronomy	the art or science of good eating.	noun	18	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
gauche	lacking social grace, sensitivity, or acuteness; awkward; crude; tactless	adjective	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
gaudy	brilliantly or excessively showy	adjective	11	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
gaunt	extremely thin and bony; haggard and drawn, as from great hunger, weariness, or torture; emaciated.	adjective	9	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
gavel	a small mallet used by the presiding officer of a meeting, a judge, etc., usually to signal for attention or order.	noun	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
gawk	to stare stupidly; gape	verb (used without object)	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
gazette	a newspaper (now used chiefly in the names of newspapers)	noun	18	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
genealogy	a record or account of the ancestry and descent of a person, family, group, etc.	noun	17	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
generality	an indefinite, unspecific, or undetailed statement	noun	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
generate	to bring into existence; cause to be; produce.	verb (used with object)	11	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
generic	of, applicable to, or referring to all the members of a 	adjective	13	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
genesis	an origin, creation, or beginning.	noun	10	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
geniality	warmly and pleasantly cheerful; cordial	adjective	15	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
genre	a class or category of artistic endeavor having a particular form, content, technique, or the like	noun	8	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
genteel	belonging or suited to polite society.	adjective	11	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
gentility	good breeding or refinement.	noun	15	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
gentle	kindly; amiable	adjective	10	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
gentry	wellborn and well-bred people.	noun	11	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
genuflect	to bend the knee or touch one knee to the floor in reverence or worship.	verb (used without object)	20	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
genus	Biology. the usual major subdivision of a family or subfamily in the classification of organisms, usually consisting of more than one species.	noun	9	8-All English speakers likely know this word
geriatrics	the branch of medicine dealing with the diseases, debilities, and care of aged persons.	noun	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
germ	a microorganism, especially when disease-producing; microbe.	noun	9	8-All English speakers likely know this word
germane	closely or significantly related; relevant; pertinent	adjective	13	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
germinal	being in the earliest stage of development	adjective	15	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
germinate	to begin to grow or develop.	verb (used without object)	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
gerontocracy	government by a council of elders.	noun	23	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
gerontology	the branch of science that deals with aging and the problems of aged persons.	noun	19	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
gerrymander	U.S. Politics. the dividing of a state, county, etc., into election districts so as to give one political party a majority in many districts while concentrating the voting strength of the other party into as few districts as possible.	noun	20	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
gestate	to carry in the womb during the period from conception to delivery.	verb (used with object)	9	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
gesticulation	the act of 	noun	21	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
ghastly	shockingly frightful or dreadful; horrible	adjective	14	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
gibberish	meaningless or unintelligible talk or writing.	noun	19	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
gibe	to utter mocking or scoffing words; jeer.	verb (used without object)	9	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
giddy	affected with vertigo; dizzy.	adjective	11	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
gild	to coat with gold, gold leaf, or a gold-colored substance.	verb (used with object)	8	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
gingerly	with great care or caution; warily.	adverb	16	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
girth	the measure around anything; circumference.	noun	9	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
gist	the main or essential part of a matter	noun	6	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
glacial	of or relating to 	adjective	14	11-All English speakers likely know this word
glamor	the quality of fascinating, alluring, or attracting, especially by a combination of charm and good looks.	noun	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
glare	a very harsh, bright, dazzling light	noun	8	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
glaring	shining with or reflecting a harshly bright or brilliant light.	adjective	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
glaze	to furnish or fill with glass	verb (used with object)	17	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
gleam	a flash or beam of light	noun	11	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
glean	to gather slowly and laboriously, bit by bit.	verb (used with object)	9	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
glib	readily fluent, often thoughtlessly, superficially, or insincerely so	adjective	10	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
glimmer	a faint or unsteady light; gleam.	noun	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
glitter	to reflect light with a brilliant, sparkling luster; sparkle with reflected light.	verb (used without object)	10	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
gloat	to look at or think about with great or excessive, often smug or malicious, satisfaction	verb (used without object)	8	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
gloss	a superficial luster or shine; glaze	noun	8	10-All English speakers likely know this word
glossary	a list of terms in a special subject, field, or area of usage, with accompanying definitions.	noun	13	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
glossy	having a shiny or lustrous surface.	adjective	11	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
glow	a light emitted by or as if by a substance heated to luminosity; incandescence.	noun	10	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
glower	to look or stare with sullen dislike, discontent, or anger.	verb (used without object)	12	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
glut	to feed or fill to satiety; sate	verb (used with object)	8	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
glutinous	of the nature of glue; gluey; viscid; sticky.	adjective	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
glutton	a person who eats and drinks excessively or voraciously.	noun	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
gnarl	a knotty protuberance on a tree; knot.	noun	9	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
gnarled	(of trees) full of or covered with 	adjective	12	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
gnome	(in folklore) one of a species of diminutive beings, usually described as shriveled little old men, that inhabit the interior of the earth and act as guardians of its treasures; troll.	noun	11	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
goad	a stick with a pointed or electrically charged end, for driving cattle, oxen, etc.; prod.	noun	7	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
gobble	to swallow or eat hastily or hungrily in large pieces; gulp.	verb (used with object)	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
gorge	a narrow cleft with steep, rocky walls, especially one through which a stream runs.	noun	9	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
gorge	a narrow cleft with steep, rocky walls, especially one through which a stream runs.	noun	9	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
gory	covered or stained with 	adjective	8	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
gossamer	a fine, filmy cobweb seen on grass or bushes or floating in the air in calm weather, especially in autumn.	noun	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
gouge	a chisel having a partly cylindrical blade with the bevel on either the concave or the convex side.	noun	10	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
gouge	a chisel having a partly cylindrical blade with the bevel on either the concave or the convex side.	noun	10	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
gourmand	a person who is fond of good eating, often indiscriminatingly and to excess.	noun	16	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
gourmet	a connoisseur of fine food and drink; epicure.	noun	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
gracious	pleasantly kind, benevolent, and courteous.	adjective	14	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
gradation	any process or change taking place through a series of stages, by degrees, or in a gradual manner.	noun	13	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
graduate	a person who has received a degree or diploma on completing a course of study, as in a university, college, or school.	noun	12	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
graduated	characterized by or arranged in degrees, especially successively, as according to height, depth, or difficulty	adjective	14	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
granary	a storehouse or repository for grain, especially after it has been threshed or husked.	noun	12	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
grandeur	the quality or state of being impressive or awesome	noun	13	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
grandiloquent	speaking or expressed in a lofty style, often to the point of being pompous or bombastic.	adjective	29	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
grandiose	affectedly grand or important; pompous	adjective	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
granulate	to form into 	verb (used with object)	14	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
graphic	giving a clear and effective picture; vivid	adjective	17	11-All English speakers likely know this word
graphite	a very common mineral, soft native carbon, occurring in black to dark-gray foliated masses, with metallic luster and greasy feel	noun	15	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
grapple	to hold or make fast to something, as with a grapple.	verb (used without object)	16	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
grate	a frame of metal bars for holding fuel when burning, as in a fireplace, furnace, or stove.	noun	7	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
gratify	to give pleasure to (a person or persons) by satisfying desires or humoring inclinations or feelings	verb (used with object)	14	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
gratis	without charge or payment; free	adverb	8	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
gratuitous	given, done, bestowed, or obtained without charge or payment; free; voluntary.	adjective	14	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
gratuity	a gift of money, over and above payment due for service, as to a waiter or bellhop; tip.	noun	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
gravity	the force of attraction by which terrestrial bodies tend to fall toward the center of the earth.	noun	15	11-All English speakers likely know this word
graze	to feed on growing grass and pasturage, as do cattle, sheep, etc.	verb (used without object)	16	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
gregarious	fond of the company of others; sociable.	adjective	15	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
grievance	a wrong considered as grounds for complaint, or something believed to cause distress	noun	19	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
grill	a grated utensil for broiling meat, fish, vegetables, etc., over a fire; gridiron.	noun	9	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
grim	stern and admitting of no appeasement or compromise	adjective	9	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
grimace	a facial expression, often ugly or contorted, that indicates disapproval, pain, etc.	noun	15	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
grisly	causing a shudder or feeling of horror; horrible; gruesome	adjective	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
groom	a bridegroom.	noun	10	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
groove	a long, narrow cut or indentation in a surface, as the cut in a board to receive the tongue of another board (tongue-and-groove joint) a furrow, or a natural indentation on an organism.	noun	12	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
gross	without deductions; total, as the amount of sales, salary, profit, etc., before taking deductions for expenses, taxes, or the like (opposed to 	adjective	7	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
grotesque	odd or unnatural in shape, appearance, or character; fantastically ugly or absurd; bizarre.	adjective	21	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
grotto	a cave or cavern.	noun	8	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
grouch	to be sulky or morose; show discontent; complain, especially in an irritable way.	verb (used without object)	14	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
grouse	any of numerous gallinaceous birds of the subfamily Tetraoninae.  Compare  	noun	9	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
grovel	to humble oneself or act in an abject manner, as in great fear or utter servility.	verb (used without object)	13	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
growl	to utter a deep guttural sound of anger or hostility	verb (used without object)	11	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
grudge	a feeling of ill will or resentment	noun	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
grudging	displaying or reflecting reluctance or unwillingness	adjective	17	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
gruel	a light, usually thin, cooked cereal made by boiling meal, especially oatmeal, in water or milk.	noun	9	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
grueling	exhausting; very tiring; arduously severe	adjective	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
gruesome	causing great horror; horribly repugnant; grisly	adjective	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
gruff	low and harsh; hoarse	adjective	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
grumble	to murmur or mutter in discontent; complain sullenly.	verb (used without object)	17	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
grunt	to utter the deep, guttural sound characteristic of a hog.	verb (used without object)	9	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
guffaw	a loud, unrestrained burst of laughter.	noun	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
guile	insidious cunning in attaining a goal; crafty or artful deception; duplicity.	noun	9	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
guileless	free from 	adjective	14	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
guise	general external appearance; aspect; semblance	noun	8	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
gull	any of numerous long-winged, web-toed, aquatic birds of the family Laridae, having usually white plumage with a gray back and wings.	noun	9	7-All English speakers likely know this word
gullible	easily deceived or cheated.	adjective	17	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
gush	to flow out or issue suddenly, copiously, or forcibly, as a fluid from confinement	verb (used without object)	9	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
gust	a sudden, strong blast of wind.	noun	7	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
gustatory	of or relating to taste or tasting.	adjective	14	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
gusto	hearty or keen enjoyment, as in eating or drinking, or in action or speech in general	noun	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
gusty	blowing or coming in 	adjective	10	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
guy	Informal. a man or boy; fellow	noun	8	8-All English speakers likely know this word
gyroscope	an apparatus consisting of a rotating wheel so mounted that its axis can turn freely in certain or all directions, and capable of maintaining the same absolute direction in space in spite of movements of the mountings and surrounding parts	noun	19	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
habitat	the natural environment of an organism; place that is natural for the life and growth of an organism	noun	12	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
habituate	to accustom (a person, the mind, etc.), as to a particular situation	verb (used with object)	15	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
hackles	one of the long, slender feathers on the neck or saddle of certain birds, as the domestic rooster, much used in making artificial flies for anglers.	noun	17	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
hackneyed	made commonplace or trite; stale; banal	adjective	22	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
haggard	having a gaunt, wasted, or exhausted appearance, as from prolonged suffering, exertion, or anxiety; worn	adjective	14	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
haggle	to bargain in a petty, quibbling, and often contentious manner	verb (used without object)	13	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
hail	to cheer, salute, or greet; welcome.	verb (used with object)	7	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
halcyon	calm; peaceful; tranquil	adjective	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
hale	free from disease or infirmity; robust; vigorous	adjective	7	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
halfhearted	having or showing little enthusiasm	adjective	20	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
hallowed	regarded as holy; venerated; sacred	adjective	16	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
hallucination	a sensory experience of something that does not exist outside the mind, caused by various physical and mental disorders, or by reaction to certain toxic substances, and usually manifested as visual or auditory images.	noun	23	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
halting	faltering or hesitating, especially in speech.	adjective	13	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
hamper	to hold back; hinder; impede	verb (used with object)	14	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
handsome	having an attractive, well-proportioned, and imposing appearance suggestive of health and strength; good-looking	adjective	15	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
hap	one's luck or lot.	noun	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
haphazard	characterized by lack of order or planning, by irregularity, or by randomness; determined by or dependent on chance; aimless.	adjective	26	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
hapless	unlucky; luckless; unfortunate.	adjective	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
harangue	a scolding or a long or intense verbal attack; diatribe.	noun	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
harass	to disturb persistently; torment, as with troubles or cares; bother continually; pester; persecute.	verb (used with object)	8	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
harbinger	a person who goes ahead and makes known the approach of another; herald.	noun	17	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
harbor	a part of a body of water along the shore deep enough for anchoring a ship and so situated with respect to coastal features, whether natural or artificial, as to provide protection from winds, waves, and currents.	noun	11	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
hardy	capable of enduring fatigue, hardship, exposure, etc.; sturdy; strong	adjective	10	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
harping	any of several horizontal members at the ends of a vessel for holding cant frames in position until the shell planking or plating is attached.	noun	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
harrowing	extremely disturbing or distressing; grievous	adjective	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
harry	to harass, annoy, or prove a nuisance to by or as if by repeated attacks; worry	verb (used with object)	9	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
hatch	to bring forth (young) from the egg.	verb (used with object)	12	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
haughtiness	disdainfully proud; snobbish; scornfully arrogant; supercilious	adjective	19	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
haunt	to visit habitually or appear to frequently as a spirit or ghost	verb (used with object)	9	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
haven	a harbor or port.	noun	12	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
havoc	great destruction or devastation; ruinous damage.	noun	14	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
hazard	an unavoidable danger or risk, even though often foreseeable	noun	18	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
hazardous	full of risk; perilous; risky	adjective	22	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
hazy	characterized by the presence of 	adjective	17	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
headfirst	with the 	adverb	15	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
headlong	with the head foremost; headfirst	adverb	15	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
headstrong	determined to have one's own way; willful; stubborn; obstinate	adjective	16	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
healthful	conducive to 	adjective	19	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
healthy	possessing or enjoying good 	adjective	14	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
heckler	to harass (a public speaker, performer, etc.) with impertinent questions, gibes, or the like; badger.	verb (used with object)	17	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
hedonist	a person whose life is devoted to the pursuit of pleasure and self-gratification.	noun	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
heed	to give careful attention to	verb (used with object)	7	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
heedless	careless; thoughtless; unmindful	adjective	12	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
hegemony	leadership or predominant influence exercised by one nation over others, as in a confederation.	noun	18	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
heinous	hateful; odious; abominable; totally reprehensible	adjective	11	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
helm	Nautical.    a wheel or tiller by which a ship is steered.    the entire steering apparatus of a ship.    the angle with the fore-and-aft line made by a rudder when turned	noun	10	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
hem	to fold back and sew down the edge of (cloth, a garment, etc.); form an edge or border on or around.	verb (used with object)	8	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
herald	(formerly) a royal or official messenger, especially one representing a monarch in an ambassadorial capacity during wartime.	noun	10	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
herbivorous	feeding on plants.	adjective	21	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
hereafter	after this in time or order; at some future time; farther along.	adverb	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
heresy	opinion or doctrine at variance with the orthodox or accepted doctrine, especially of a church or religious system.	noun	10	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
hermetic	made airtight by fusion or sealing.	adjective	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
hermetic	made airtight by fusion or sealing.	adjective	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
hermitage	the habitation of a hermit.	noun	16	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
herpetologist	the branch of zoology dealing with reptiles and amphibians.	noun	21	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
heterodox	not in accordance with established or accepted doctrines or opinions, especially in theology; unorthodox.	adjective	19	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
heterogeneous	different in kind; unlike; incongruous.	adjective	19	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
hew	to strike forcibly with an ax, sword, or other cutting instrument; chop; hack.	verb (used with object)	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
heyday	the stage or period of greatest vigor, strength, success, etc.; prime	noun	13	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
hiatus	a break or interruption in the continuity of a work, series, action, etc.	noun	9	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
hibernal	of or relating to winter; wintry.	adjective	15	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
hibernate	Zoology. to spend the winter in close quarters in a dormant condition, as bears and certain other animals.  Compare  	verb (used without object)	15	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
hide	to conceal from sight; prevent from being seen or discovered	verb (used with object)	7	8-All English speakers likely know this word
hideous	horrible or frightful to the senses; repulsive; very ugly	adjective	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
hierarchy	any system of persons or things ranked one above another.	noun	18	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
hieroglyphic	Also, hieroglyphical. designating or pertaining to a pictographic script, particularly that of the ancient Egyptians, in which many of the symbols are conventionalized, recognizable pictures of the things represented.	adjective	27	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
high-flown	extravagant in aims, pretensions, etc.	adjective	10	78-Few English speakers likely know this word
hilarity	cheerfulness; merriment; mirthfulness.	noun	13	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
hindmost	furtherest behind or nearest the rear; last.	adjective	15	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
hindrance	an impeding, stopping, preventing, or the like.	noun	17	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
hindsight	recognition of the realities, possibilities, or requirements of a situation, event, decision etc., after its occurrence.	noun	17	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
hinterlands	Often, hinterlands. the remote or less developed parts of a country; back country	noun	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
hireling	a person who works only for pay, especially in a menial or boring job, with little or no concern for the value of the work.	noun	14	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
hirsute	hairy; shaggy.	adjective	10	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
historic	well-known or important in 	adjective	13	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
historical	of, pertaining to, treating, or characteristic of 	adjective	16	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
histrionic	of or relating to actors or acting.	adjective	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
hive	a shelter constructed for housing a colony of honeybees; 	noun	10	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
hoard	a supply or accumulation that is hidden or carefully guarded for preservation, future use, etc.	noun	8	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
hoary	gray or white with age	adjective	9	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
hoax	something intended to deceive or defraud	noun	13	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
holocaust	a great or complete devastation or destruction, especially by fire.	noun	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
holster	a sheathlike carrying case for a firearm, attached to a belt, shoulder sling, or saddle.	noun	10	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
homage	respect or reverence paid or rendered	noun	13	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
homely	lacking in physical attractiveness; not beautiful; unattractive	adjective	14	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
homeostasis	the tendency of a system, especially the physiological system of higher animals, to maintain internal stability, owing to the coordinated response of its parts to any situation or stimulus that would tend to disturb its normal condition or function.	noun	16	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
homespun		adjective	18	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
homily	a sermon, usually on a Biblical topic and usually of a nondoctrinal nature.	noun	14	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
homogeneous	composed of parts or elements that are all of the same kind; not heterogeneous	adjective	20	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
hone	a whetstone of fine, compact texture for sharpening razors and other cutting tools.	noun	7	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
hoodwink	to deceive or trick.	verb (used with object)	19	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
horde	a large group, multitude, number, etc.; a mass or crowd	noun	8	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
horoscope	a diagram of the heavens, showing the relative position of planets and the signs of the zodiac, for use in calculating births, foretelling events in a person's life, etc.	noun	17	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
hortatory	urging to some course of conduct or action; exhorting; encouraging	adjective	13	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
horticultural	the cultivation of a garden, orchard, or nursery; the cultivation of flowers, fruits, vegetables, or ornamental plants.	noun	22	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
hostage	a person given or held as security for the fulfillment of certain conditions or terms, promises, etc., by another.	noun	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
hostility	a hostile state, condition, or attitude; enmity; antagonism; unfriendliness.	noun	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
hothead	an impetuous or short-tempered person.	noun	12	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
hovel	a small, very humble dwelling house; a wretched hut.	noun	12	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
hover	to hang fluttering or suspended in the air	verb (used without object)	11	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
hubbub	a loud, confused noise, as of many voices	noun	19	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
hubris	excessive pride or self-confidence; arrogance.	noun	12	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
hue	a gradation or variety of a color; tint	noun	6	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
hull	the husk, shell, or outer covering of a seed or fruit.	noun	9	10-All English speakers likely know this word
humane	characterized by tenderness, compassion, and sympathy for people and animals, especially for the suffering or distressed	adjective	13	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
humanitarian	having concern for or helping to improve the welfare and happiness of people.	adjective	20	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
humble	not proud or arrogant; modest	adjective	16	10-All English speakers likely know this word
humdrum	lacking variety; boring; dull	adjective	18	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
humid	containing a high amount of water or water vapor; noticeably moist	adjective	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
humility	the quality or condition of being 	noun	17	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
hummock	Also, 	noun	23	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
humor	a comic, absurd, or incongruous quality causing amusement	noun	11	8-All English speakers likely know this word
humus	the dark organic material in soils, produced by the decomposition of vegetable or animal matter and essential to the fertility of the earth.	noun	12	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
hurl	to throw or fling with great force or vigor.	verb (used with object)	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
hurtle	to rush violently; move with great speed	verb (used without object)	10	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
husband	a married man, especially when considered in relation to his partner in marriage.	noun	15	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
husbandry	the cultivation and production of edible crops or of animals for food; agriculture; farming.	noun	19	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
hut	a small or humble dwelling of simple construction, especially one made of natural materials, as of logs or grass.	noun	6	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
hybrid	the offspring of two animals or plants of different breeds, varieties, species, or genera, especially as produced through human manipulation for specific genetic characteristics.	noun	14	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
hydrophobia		noun	24	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
hygiene	Also, 	noun	14	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
hyperbole	obvious and intentional exaggeration.	noun	20	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
hypercritical	excessively or meticulously 	adjective	27	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
hypnosis	an artificially induced trance state resembling sleep, characterized by heightened susceptibility to suggestion.	noun	16	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
hypochondria	Also, hypochondriasis          	noun	26	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
hypocrisy	a pretense of having a virtuous character, moral or religious beliefs or principles, etc., that one does not really possess.	noun	21	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
hypothetical	assumed by hypothesis; supposed	adjective	25	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
hysteria	an uncontrollable outburst of emotion or fear, often characterized by irrationality, laughter, weeping, etc.	noun	12	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
ichthyology	the branch of zoology dealing with fishes.	noun	25	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
icon	a picture, image, or other representation.	noun	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
iconoclast	a person who attacks cherished beliefs, traditional institutions, etc., as being based on error or superstition.	noun	18	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
ideology	the body of doctrine, myth, belief, etc., that guides an individual, social movement, institution, class, or large group.	noun	14	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
idiom	an expression whose meaning is not predictable from the usual meanings of its constituent elements, as kick the bucket or hang one's head, or from the general grammatical rules of a language, as the table round for the round table, and that is not a constituent of a larger expression of like characteristics.	noun	9	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
idiosyncrasy	a characteristic, habit, mannerism, or the like, that is peculiar to an individual.	noun	21	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
idle	not working or active; unemployed; doing nothing	adjective	6	11-All English speakers likely know this word
idolatry	the religious worship of 	noun	12	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
idyllic	suitable for or suggestive of an 	adjective	15	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
idyll	a poem or prose composition, usually describing pastoral scenes or events or any charmingly simple episode, appealing incident, or the like.	noun	10	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
igneous	Geology. produced under conditions involving intense heat, as rocks of volcanic origin or rocks crystallized from molten magma.	adjective	11	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
ignite	to set on fire; kindle.	verb (used with object)	9	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
ignoble	of low character, aims, etc.; mean; base	adjective	14	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
ignominy	disgrace; dishonor; public contempt.	noun	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
illicit	not legally permitted or authorized; unlicensed; unlawful.	adjective	12	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
illimitable	not limitable; limitless; boundless.	adjective	20	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
illuminate	to supply or brighten with light; light up.	verb (used with object)	17	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
illusion	something that deceives by producing a false or misleading impression of reality.	noun	12	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
illusive		adjective	15	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
illusory	causing 	adjective	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
imbalance	the state or condition of lacking 	noun	20	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
imbecility	an instance or point of weakness; feebleness; incapability.	noun	22	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
imbibe	to consume (liquids) by drinking; drink	verb (used with object)	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
imbroglio	a misunderstanding, disagreement, etc., of a complicated or bitter nature, as between persons or nations.	noun	18	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
imbue	to impregnate or inspire, as with feelings, opinions, etc.	verb (used with object)	12	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
immaculate	free from spot or stain; spotlessly clean	adjective	21	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
imminent	likely to occur at any moment; impending	adjective	16	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
immobility	the quality or condition of being 	noun	22	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
immolate	to sacrifice.	verb (used with object)	15	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
immune	protected from a disease or the like, as by inoculation.	adjective	14	11-All English speakers likely know this word
immure	to enclose within walls.	verb (used with object)	13	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
immutable	not mutable; unchangeable; changeless.	adjective	20	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
impair	to make or cause to become worse; diminish in ability, value, excellence, etc.; weaken or damage	verb (used with object)	12	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
impale	to fasten, stick, or fix upon a sharpened stake or the like.	verb (used with object)	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
impalpable	not 	adjective	24	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
impart	to make known; tell; relate; disclose	verb (used with object)	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
impartial	not 	adjective	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
impassable	not 	adjective	20	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
impasse	a position or situation from which there is no escape; deadlock.	noun	13	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
impassioned	filled with intense feeling or passion; passionate; ardent.	adjective	19	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
impassive	without emotion; apathetic; unmoved.	adjective	19	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
impeach	to accuse (a public official) before an appropriate tribunal of misconduct in office.	verb (used with object)	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
impeccable	faultless; flawless; irreproachable	adjective	26	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
impecunious	having little or no money; penniless; poor.	adjective	23	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
impede	to retard in movement or progress by means of obstacles or hindrances; obstruct; hinder.	verb (used with object)	13	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
impediment	obstruction; hindrance; obstacle.	noun	21	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
impel	to drive or urge forward; press on; incite or constrain to action.	verb (used with object)	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
impending	about to happen; imminent	adjective	20	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
impenetrable	not penetrable; that cannot be penetrated, pierced, entered, etc.	adjective	23	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
impenitent	not feeling regret about one's sin or sins; obdurate.	adjective	18	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
imperative	absolutely necessary or required; unavoidable	adjective	20	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
imperceptible	very slight, gradual, or subtle	adjective	29	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
imperial	of, like, or pertaining to an 	adjective	15	9-All English speakers likely know this word
imperil	to put in 	verb (used with object)	14	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
imperious	domineering in a haughty manner; dictatorial; overbearing	adjective	16	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
impermeable	not permeable; impassable.	adjective	24	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
impersonal	not personal; without reference or connection to a particular person	adjective	18	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
impertinent	intrusive or presumptuous, as persons or their actions; insolently rude; uncivil	adjective	19	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
imperturbable	incapable of being upset or agitated; not easily excited; calm	adjective	27	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
impervious	not permitting penetration or passage; impenetrable	adjective	21	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
impetuous	of, relating to, or characterized by sudden or rash action, emotion, etc.; impulsive	adjective	17	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
impetus	a moving force; impulse; stimulus	noun	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
impiety	lack of piety; lack of reverence for God or sacred things; irreverence.	noun	15	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
impinge	to make an impression; have an effect or impact (usually followed by on or upon)	verb (used without object)	16	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
impious	not pious or religious; lacking reverence for God, religious practices, etc.; irreligious; ungodly.	adjective	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
implacable	not to be appeased, mollified, or pacified; inexorable	adjective	24	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
implausible	not 	adjective	23	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
implement	any article used in some activity, especially an instrument, tool, or utensil	noun	20	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
implicate	to show to be also involved, usually in an incriminating manner	verb (used with object)	19	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
implication	something 	noun	22	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
implicit	implied, rather than expressly stated	adjective	18	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
implode	to burst inward (opposed to 	verb (used without object)	15	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
implore	to beg urgently or piteously, as for aid or mercy; beseech; entreat	verb (used with object)	14	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
imply	to indicate or suggest without being explicitly stated	verb (used with object)	14	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
impolitic	not 	adjective	19	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
imponderable	not ponderable; that cannot be precisely determined, measured, or evaluated.	adjective	24	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
import	to bring in (merchandise, commodities, workers, etc.) from a foreign country for use, sale, processing, reexport, or services.	verb (used with object)	12	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
importunate	urgent or persistent in solicitation, sometimes annoyingly so.	adjective	19	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
importune	to press or beset with solicitations; demand with urgency or persistence.	verb (used with object)	17	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
imposture	the action or practice of imposing fraudulently upon others.	noun	16	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
impotent	not potent; lacking power or ability.	adjective	15	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
impoverish	to reduce to poverty	verb (used with object)	22	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
imprecation	the act of 	noun	21	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
impregnable	strong enough to resist or withstand attack; not to be taken by force, unconquerable	adjective	24	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
impregnate	to make pregnant; get with child or young.	verb (used with object)	19	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
impromptu	made or done without previous preparation	adjective	22	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
impropriety	the quality or condition of being improper; incorrectness.	noun	22	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
improvident	not 	adjective	23	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
improvise	to compose and perform or deliver without previous preparation; extemporize	verb (used with object)	19	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
imprudent	not prudent; lacking discretion; incautious; rash.	adjective	18	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
impudence	the quality or state of being 	noun	21	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
impugn	to challenge as false (another's statements, motives, etc.); cast doubt upon.	verb (used with object)	16	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
impuissance	lacking strength; feeble; weak.	adjective	18	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
impunity	exemption from punishment.	noun	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
impute	to attribute or ascribe	verb (used with object)	13	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
inadvertently	unintentional	adjective	23	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
inalienable	not 	adjective	18	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
inamorata	a woman who loves or is loved; female sweetheart or lover.	noun	13	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
inane	lacking sense, significance, or ideas; silly	adjective	7	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
inanimate	not animate; lifeless.	adjective	14	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
inarticulate	lacking the ability to express oneself, especially in clear and effective speech	adjective	18	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
inaugurate	to make a formal beginning of; initiate; commence; begin	verb (used with object)	15	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
incandescent	(of light) produced by 	adjective	22	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
incantation	the chanting or uttering of words purporting to have magical power.	noun	17	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
incapacitate	to deprive of ability, qualification, or strength; make incapable or unfit; disable.	verb (used with object)	22	68-Few English speakers likely know this word
incarcerate	to imprison; confine.	verb (used with object)	18	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
incarnate	embodied in flesh; given a bodily, especially a human, form	adjective	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
incarnation	an 	noun	17	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
incendiary	used or adapted for setting property on fire	adjective	18	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
incense	an aromatic gum or other substance producing a sweet odor when burned, used in religious ceremonies, to enhance a mood, etc.	noun	12	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
incentive	something that incites or tends to incite to action or greater effort, as a reward offered for increased productivity.	noun	18	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
inception	beginning; start; commencement.	noun	17	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
incessant	continuing without interruption; ceaseless; unending	adjective	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
inchoate	not yet completed or fully developed; rudimentary.	adjective	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
incidence	the rate or range of occurrence or influence of something, especially of something unwanted	noun	18	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
incident	an individual occurrence or event.	noun	14	11-All English speakers likely know this word
incidental	happening or likely to happen in an unplanned or subordinate conjunction with something else.	adjective	17	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
incinerate	to burn or reduce to ashes; cremate.	verb (used with object)	15	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
incipient	beginning to exist or appear; in an initial stage	adjective	17	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
incisive	penetrating; cutting; biting; trenchant	adjective	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
incite	to stir, encourage, or urge on; stimulate or prompt to action	verb (used with object)	10	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
inclement	(of the weather, the elements, etc.) severe, rough, or harsh; stormy.	adjective	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
incline	to deviate from the vertical or horizontal; slant.	verb (used with object)	13	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
inclined	deviating in direction from the horizontal or vertical; sloping.	adjective	15	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
inclusive		adjective	19	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
incognito	having one's identity concealed, as under an assumed name, especially to avoid notice or formal attentions.	adjective	16	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
incoherent	without logical or meaningful connection; disjointed; rambling	adjective	17	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
incommodious	inconvenient, as not affording sufficient space or room; uncomfortable	adjective	24	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
incompatible	not compatible; unable to exist together in harmony	adjective	26	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
incongruity	the quality or condition of being 	noun	21	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
inconsequential	of little or no importance; insignificant; trivial.	adjective	32	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
inconsistency	the quality or condition of being 	noun	24	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
incontinent	unable to restrain natural discharges or evacuations of urine or feces.	adjective	18	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
incontrovertible	not controvertible; not open to question or dispute; indisputable	adjective	29	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
incorporate	to form into a legal corporation.	verb (used with object)	18	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
incorporeal	not corporeal or material; insubstantial.	adjective	19	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
incorrigible	not corrigible; bad beyond correction or reform	adjective	22	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
incredulity	the quality or state of being 	noun	20	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
incredulous	not credulous; disinclined or indisposed to believe; skeptical.	adjective	19	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
increment	something added or gained; addition; increase.	noun	17	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
incriminate	to accuse of or present proof of a 	verb (used with object)	19	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
incrustation	an 	noun	18	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
incubate	to sit upon (eggs) for the purpose of hatching.	verb (used with object)	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
incubus	an imaginary demon or evil spirit supposed to descend upon sleeping persons, especially one fabled to have sexual intercourse with women during their sleep.  Compare  	noun	16	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
inculcate	to implant by repeated statement or admonition; teach persistently and earnestly (usually followed by upon or in)	verb (used with object)	18	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
incumbent	holding an indicated position, role, office, etc., currently	adjective	21	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
incur	to come into or acquire (some consequence, usually undesirable or injurious)	verb (used with object)	10	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
incursion	a hostile entrance into or invasion of a place or territory, especially a sudden one; raid	noun	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
indecision	inability to decide.	noun	16	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
indecisive	characterized by 	adjective	19	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
indefatigable	incapable of being tired out; not yielding to fatigue; untiring.	adjective	24	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
indelible	making marks that cannot be erased, removed, or the like	adjective	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
indemnify	to compensate for damage or loss sustained, expense incurred, etc.	verb (used with object)	20	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
indentation	a cut, notch, or deep recess	noun	15	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
indenture	a deed or agreement executed in two or more copies with edges correspondingly 	noun	13	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
indeterminate	not determinate; not precisely fixed in extent; indefinite; uncertain.	adjective	19	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
indicative	showing, signifying, or pointing out; expressive or suggestive (usually followed by of)	adjective	19	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
indices	a plural of 	noun	12	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
indict	(of a grand jury) to bring a formal accusation against, as a means of bringing to trial	verb (used with object)	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
indifferent	without interest or concern; not caring; apathetic	adjective	20	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
indigence	seriously impoverished condition; poverty.	noun	17	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
indigenous	originating in and characteristic of a particular region or country; native (often followed by to)	adjective	16	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
indigent	lacking food, clothing, and other necessities of life because of poverty; needy; poor; impoverished.	adjective	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
indignation	strong displeasure at something considered unjust, offensive, insulting, or base; righteous anger.	noun	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
indignity	an injury to a person's dignity; slighting or contemptuous treatment; humiliating affront, insult, or injury.	noun	16	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
indiscriminate	not discriminating; lacking in care, judgment, selectivity, etc.	adjective	23	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
indisputable	not disputable or deniable; uncontestable. indisputable evidence.	adjective	22	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
indissoluble	not dissoluble; incapable of being dissolved, decomposed, undone, or destroyed.	adjective	20	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
indite	to compose or write, as a poem.	verb (used with object)	8	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
indoctrinate	to instruct in a 	verb (used with object)	18	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
indolent	having or showing a disposition to avoid exertion; slothful	adjective	12	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
indomitable	that cannot be subdued or overcome, as persons, will, or courage; unconquerable	adjective	20	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
indubitable	that cannot be doubted; patently evident or certain; unquestionable.	adjective	21	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
induce	to lead or move by persuasion or influence, as to some action or state of mind	verb (used with object)	12	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
induct	to install in an office, benefice, position, etc., especially with formal ceremonies	verb (used with object)	12	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
inductive	of, relating to, or involving electrical induction or 	adjective	19	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
indulge	to yield to an inclination or desire; allow oneself to follow one's will (often followed by in)	verb (used without object)	13	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
indulgent	characterized by or showing 	adjective	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
industrious	working energetically and devotedly; hard-working; diligent	adjective	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
inebriate	to make drunk; intoxicate.	verb (used with object)	13	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
inebriated	to make drunk; intoxicate.	verb (used with object)	15	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
ineffable	incapable of being expressed or described in words; inexpressible	adjective	20	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
ineffectual	not 	adjective	23	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
ineluctable	incapable of being evaded; inescapable	adjective	21	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
inept	without skill or aptitude for a particular task or assignment; maladroit	adjective	9	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
inequity	lack of 	noun	21	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
inerrancy	lack of error; infallibility.	noun	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
inert	having no inherent power of action, motion, or resistance (opposed to 	adjective	6	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
inevitable	unable to be avoided, evaded, or escaped; certain; necessary	adjective	19	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
inexorable	unyielding; unalterable	adjective	22	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
infallible	absolutely trustworthy or sure	adjective	20	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
infamous	having an extremely bad reputation	adjective	16	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
infantile	characteristic of or befitting an 	adjective	15	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
infer	to derive by reasoning; conclude or judge from premises or evidence	verb (used with object)	9	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
infernal	hellish; fiendish; diabolical	adjective	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
infest	to live in or overrun to an unwanted degree or in a troublesome manner, especially as predatory animals or vermin do	verb (used with object)	10	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
infidel	Religion.    a person who does not accept a particular faith, especially Christianity.    (in Christian use) an unbeliever, especially a Muslim.    (in Muslim use) a person who does not accept the Islamic faith; kaffir.  	noun	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
infiltrate	to filter into or through; permeate.	verb (used with object)	15	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
infinitesimal	indefinitely or exceedingly small; minute	adjective	22	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
infirmity	a physical weakness or ailment	noun	18	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
inflated	distended with air or gas; swollen.	adjective	14	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
influx	act of flowing in.	noun	19	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
infraction	breach; violation; infringement	noun	18	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
infringe	to commit a breach or infraction of; violate or transgress	verb (used with object)	15	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
ingenious	characterized by cleverness or originality of invention or construction	adjective	14	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
ingenue	the part of an artless, innocent, unworldly girl or young woman, especially as represented on the stage.	noun	12	70-Few English speakers likely know this word
ingenuous	free from reserve, restraint, or dissimulation; candid; sincere.	adjective	15	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
ingrained	firmly fixed; deep-rooted; inveterate	adjective	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
ingrate	an 	noun	10	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
ingratiate	to establish (oneself or someone else) in the favor or good graces of someone, especially by deliberate effort (usually followed by with)	verb (used with object)	13	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
inherent	existing in someone or something as a permanent and inseparable element, quality, or attribute; 	adjective	12	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
inhibit	to restrain, hinder, arrest, or check (an action, impulse, etc.).	verb (used with object)	13	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
inhibited	overly restrained.	adjective	16	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
inimical	adverse in tendency or effect; unfavorable; harmful	adjective	16	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
inimitable	incapable of being imitated or copied; surpassing imitation; matchless.	adjective	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
iniquitous	characterized by injustice or wickedness; wicked; sinful.	adjective	22	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
initiate	to begin, set going, or originate	verb (used with object)	9	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
injurious	harmful, hurtful, or detrimental, as in effect	adjective	21	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
inkling	a slight suggestion or indication; hint; intimation	noun	16	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
innate	existing in one from birth; inborn; native	adjective	8	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
innocuous	not harmful or injurious; harmless	adjective	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
innovation	something new or different introduced	noun	17	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
innuendo	an indirect intimation about a person or thing, especially of a disparaging or a derogatory nature.	noun	13	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
inopportune	not opportune; inappropriate; inconvenient; untimely or unseasonable	adjective	20	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
inordinate	not within proper or reasonable limits; immoderate; excessive	adjective	13	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
inquisitive	given to 	adjective	26	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
inquisitor	a person who makes an inquisition.	noun	21	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
insalubrious	unfavorable to health; unwholesome.	adjective	19	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
insatiable	not satiable; incapable of being satisfied or appeased	adjective	15	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
inscrutable	incapable of being investigated, analyzed, or scrutinized; impenetrable.	adjective	20	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
insensate	not endowed with sensation; inanimate	adjective	11	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
insensible	incapable of feeling or perceiving; deprived of sensation; unconscious, as a person after a violent blow.	adjective	16	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
insidious	intended to entrap or beguile	adjective	12	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
insightful	characterized by or displaying 	adjective	20	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
insinuate	to suggest or hint slyly	verb (used with object)	12	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
insipid	without distinctive, interesting, or stimulating qualities; vapid	adjective	12	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
insolence	contemptuously rude or impertinent behavior or speech.	noun	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
insolvent	not 	adjective	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
insomnia	inability to obtain sufficient sleep, especially when chronic; difficulty in falling or staying asleep; sleeplessness.	noun	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
insouciant	free from concern, worry, or anxiety; carefree; nonchalant.	adjective	16	66-Few English speakers likely know this word
instigate	to cause by incitement; foment	verb (used with object)	12	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
institute	to set up; establish; organize	verb (used with object)	11	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
institution	an organization, establishment, foundation, society, or the like, devoted to the promotion of a particular cause or program, especially one of a public, educational, or charitable character	noun	14	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
institutionalize	to make 	verb (used with object)	29	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
insubordinate	not submitting to authority; disobedient	adjective	20	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
insubstantial	not substantial or real; lacking substance	adjective	20	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
insularity	of or relating to an island or islands	adjective	15	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
insuperable	incapable of being passed over, overcome, or surmounted	adjective	20	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
insurgent	a person who rises in forcible opposition to lawful authority, especially a person who engages in armed resistance to a government or to the execution of its laws; rebel.	noun	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
insurmountable	incapable of being surmounted, passed over, or overcome; insuperable	adjective	25	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
insurrection	an act or instance of rising in revolt, rebellion, or resistance against civil authority or an established government.	noun	18	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
intangible	not tangible; incapable of being perceived by the sense of touch, as incorporeal or immaterial things; impalpable.	adjective	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
integral	of, relating to, or belonging as a part of the whole; constituent or component	adjective	12	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
integrate	to bring together or incorporate (parts) into a whole.	verb (used with object)	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
integrity	adherence to moral and ethical principles; soundness of moral character; honesty.	noun	14	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
intellect	the power or faculty of the mind by which one knows or understands, as distinguished from that by which one feels and that by which one wills; the understanding; the faculty of thinking and acquiring knowledge.	noun	15	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
intelligentsia	intellectuals considered as a group or class, especially as a cultural, social, or political elite.	plural noun	20	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
inter	to place (a dead body) in a grave or tomb; bury.	verb (used with object)	6	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
interdict	Civil Law. any prohibitory act or decree of a court or an administrative officer.	noun	14	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
interim	an intervening time; interval; meantime	noun	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
interjection	the act of interjecting.	noun	26	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
interlope	to intrude into some region or field of trade without a proper license.	verb (used without object)	14	66-Few English speakers likely know this word
intermediary	an intermediate agent or agency; a go-between or mediator.	noun	19	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
interminable	incapable of being terminated; unending	adjective	21	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
intermittent	stopping or ceasing for a time; alternately ceasing and beginning again	adjective	17	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
internecine	of or relating to conflict or struggle within a group	adjective	17	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
interpolate	to introduce (something additional or extraneous) between other things or parts; interject; interpose; intercalate.	verb (used with object)	16	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
interregnum	an interval of time between the close of a sovereign's reign and the accession of his or her normal or legitimate successor.	noun	19	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
interrogate	to ask questions of (a person), sometimes to seek answers or information that the person questioned considers personal or secret.	verb (used with object)	14	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
interstice	an intervening space.	noun	14	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
intervene	to come between disputing people, groups, etc.; intercede; mediate.	verb (used without object)	15	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
intimate	associated in close personal relations	adjective	12	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
intimidate	to make timid; fill with fear.	verb (used with object)	15	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
intolerant	not tolerating or respecting beliefs, opinions, usages, manners, etc., different from one's own, as in political or religious matters; bigoted.	adjective	13	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
intoxicate	to affect temporarily with diminished physical and mental control by means of alcoholic liquor, a drug, or another substance, especially to excite or stupefy with liquor.	verb (used with object)	21	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
intractable	not easily controlled or directed; not docile or manageable; stubborn; obstinate	adjective	19	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
intransigent	refusing to agree or compromise; uncompromising; inflexible.	adjective	17	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
intrepid	resolutely fearless; dauntless	adjective	13	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
intrigue	to arouse the curiosity or interest of by unusual, new, or otherwise fascinating or compelling qualities; appeal strongly to; captivate	verb (used with object)	12	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
intrinsic	belonging to a thing by its very nature	adjective	14	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
introspect	to practice 	verb (used without object)	17	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
introvert	a shy person.	noun	14	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
intrude	to thrust or bring in without invitation, permission, or welcome.	verb (used with object)	10	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
intuition	direct perception of truth, fact, etc., independent of any reasoning process; immediate apprehension.	noun	12	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
inundate	to flood; cover or overspread with water; deluge.	verb (used with object)	12	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
inured	to accustom to hardship, difficulty, pain, etc.; toughen or harden; habituate (usually followed by to)	verb (used with object)	9	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
invalid	an infirm or sickly person.	noun	14	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
invalidate	to render 	verb (used with object)	17	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
invective	vehement or violent denunciation, censure, or reproach.	noun	21	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
inveigh	to protest strongly or attack vehemently with words; rail (usually followed by against)	verb (used without object)	16	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
inveigle	to entice, lure, or ensnare by flattery or artful talk or inducements (usually followed by into)	verb (used with object)	16	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
inverse	reversed in position, order, direction, or tendency.	adjective	12	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
invert	to turn upside down.	verb (used with object)	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
inveterate	settled or confirmed in a habit, practice, feeling, or the like	adjective	15	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
invidious	calculated to create ill will or resentment or give offense; hateful	adjective	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
invincible	incapable of being conquered, defeated, or subdued.	adjective	23	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
inviolable	prohibiting violation; secure from destruction, violence, infringement, or desecration	adjective	20	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
invocation	the act of 	noun	19	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
invoke	to call for with earnest desire; make supplication or pray for	verb (used with object)	15	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
invulnerable	incapable of being wounded, hurt, or damaged.	adjective	24	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
iota	a very small quantity; jot; whit.	noun	4	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
irascible	easily provoked to anger; very irritable	adjective	16	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
irate	angry; enraged	adjective	5	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
iridescent	displaying a play of lustrous colors like those of the rainbow.	adjective	15	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
irksome	annoying; irritating; exasperating; tiresome	adjective	14	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
ironic	using words to convey a meaning that is the opposite of its literal meaning; containing or exemplifying 	adjective	10	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
irony	the use of words to convey a meaning that is the opposite of its literal meaning	noun	8	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
irreconcilable	incapable of being brought into harmony or adjustment; incompatible	adjective	26	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
irrefutable	that cannot be refuted or disproved	adjective	19	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
irrelevant	not relevant; not applicable or pertinent	adjective	16	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
irremediable	not admitting of remedy, cure, or repair	adjective	20	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
irreparable	not reparable; incapable of being rectified, remedied, or made good	adjective	18	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
irrepressible	incapable of being repressed or restrained; uncontrollable	adjective	20	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
irreproachable	not reproachable; free from blame.	adjective	26	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
irresolute	not 	adjective	12	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
irretrievable	not retrievable; irrecoverable; irreparable.	adjective	21	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
irreverence	the quality of being 	noun	19	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
irrevocable	not to be revoked or recalled; unable to be repealed or annulled; unalterable	adjective	22	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
isotope	any of two or more forms of a chemical element, having the same number of protons in the nucleus, or the same atomic number, but having different numbers of neutrons in the nucleus, or different atomic weights. There are 275 isotopes of the 81 stable elements, in addition to over 800 radioactive isotopes, and every element has known isotopic forms. Isotopes of a single element possess almost identical properties.	noun	10	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
isthmus	a narrow strip of land, bordered on both sides by water, connecting two larger bodies of land.	noun	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
itinerant	traveling from place to place, especially on a circuit, as a minister, judge, or sales representative; 	adjective	11	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
itinerary	a detailed plan for a journey, especially a list of places to visit; plan of travel.	noun	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
jab	to poke, or thrust abruptly or sharply, as with the end or point of a stick.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	15	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
jabber	to talk or utter rapidly, indistinctly, incoherently, or nonsensically; chatter.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	21	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
jaded	dulled or satiated by overindulgence	adjective	16	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
jargon	the language, especially the vocabulary, peculiar to a particular trade, profession, or group	noun	18	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
jaundice	Also called 	noun	23	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
jaundiced	affected with or colored by or as if by 	adjective	25	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
jaunt	a short journey, especially one taken for pleasure.	noun	16	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
jaunty	easy and sprightly in manner or bearing	adjective	19	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
jeopardize	to put in 	verb (used with object)	32	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
jest	a joke or witty remark; witticism.	noun	13	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
jetsam	goods cast overboard deliberately, as to lighten a vessel or improve its stability in an emergency, which sink where jettisoned or are washed ashore.	noun	18	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
jettison	to cast (goods) overboard in order to lighten a vessel or aircraft or to improve its stability in an emergency.	verb (used with object)	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
jibe	to shift from one side to the other when running before the wind, as a fore-and-aft sail or its boom.	verb (used without object)	16	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
jingoist	the spirit, policy, or practice of 	noun	20	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
jocose	given to or characterized by joking; jesting; humorous; playful	adjective	18	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
jocular	given to, characterized by, intended for, or suited to 	adjective	21	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
jocund	cheerful; merry; gay; blithe; glad	adjective	21	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
jollity		noun	20	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
jostle	to bump, push, shove, brush against, or elbow roughly or rudely.	verb (used with object)	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
jovial	endowed with or characterized by a hearty, joyous humor or a spirit of good-fellowship	adjective	20	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
jubilation	a feeling of or the expression of joy or exultation	noun	25	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
judiciary	the judicial branch of government.	noun	25	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
judicious	using or showing judgment as to action or practical expediency; discreet, prudent, or politic	adjective	24	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
jug	a large container usually made of earthenware, metal, or glass, commonly having a handle, a narrow neck, and sometimes a cap or cork.	noun	15	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
juggernaut	(often lowercase) any large, overpowering, destructive force or object, as war, a giant battleship, or a powerful football team.	noun	26	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
jumble	to mix in a confused mass; put or throw together without order	verb (used with object)	23	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
juncture	a point of time, especially one made critical or important by a concurrence of circumstances	noun	23	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
junket	a sweet, custardlike food of flavored milk curdled with rennet.	noun	21	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
juridical	of or relating to the administration of justice.	adjective	24	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
jurisdiction	the right, power, or authority to administer justice by hearing and determining controversies.	noun	27	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
jurisprudence	the science or philosophy of law.	noun	32	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
juxtapose	to place close together or side by side, especially for comparison or contrast.	verb (used with object)	29	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
kaleidoscope	an optical instrument in which bits of glass, held loosely at the end of a rotating tube, are shown in continually changing symmetrical forms by reflection in two or more mirrors set at angles to each other.	noun	24	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
ken	knowledge, understanding, or cognizance; mental perception	noun	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
kernel	the softer, usually edible part contained in the shell of a nut or the stone of a fruit.	noun	12	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
killjoy	a person who spoils the joy or pleasure of others; spoilsport.	noun	24	68-Few English speakers likely know this word
kindle	to start (a fire); cause (a flame, blaze, etc.) to begin burning.	verb (used with object)	13	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
kindred	a person's relatives collectively; kinfolk; kin.	noun	14	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
kinetic	pertaining to motion.	adjective	15	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
kismet	fate; destiny.	noun	13	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
kleptomaniac	a person who has 	noun	27	69-Few English speakers likely know this word
knack	a special skill, talent, or aptitude	noun	17	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
knave	an unprincipled, untrustworthy, or dishonest person.	noun	14	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
knead	to work (dough, clay, etc.) into a uniform mixture by pressing, folding, and stretching.	verb (used with object)	11	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
kneel	to go down or rest on the knees or a knee.	verb (used without object)	11	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
knell	the sound made by a bell rung slowly, especially for a death or a funeral.	noun	12	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
knit	to make (a garment, fabric, etc.) by interlocking loops of one or more yarns either by hand with 	verb (used with object)	9	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
knoll	a small, rounded hill or eminence; hillock.	noun	12	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
knotty	having 	adjective	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
kudos	honor; glory; acclaim	noun	11	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
labile	apt or likely to change.	adjective	11	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
laborious	requiring much work, exertion, or perseverance	adjective	14	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
labyrinth	an intricate combination of paths or passages in which it is difficult to find one's way or to reach the exit.  Synonyms	noun	18	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
lace	a netlike ornamental fabric made of threads by hand or machine.	noun	8	8-All English speakers likely know this word
laceration	the result of 	noun	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
lachrymose	suggestive of or tending to cause tears; mournful.	adjective	21	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
lackadaisical	without interest, vigor, or determination; listless; lethargic	adjective	26	66-Few English speakers likely know this word
lackluster		adjective	20	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
laconic	using few words; expressing much in few words; concise	adjective	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
lag	to fail to maintain a desired pace or to keep up; fall or stay behind	verb (used without object)	6	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
laggard	a person or thing that 	noun	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
lagoon	an area of shallow water separated from the sea by low sandy dunes.  Compare  	noun	10	11-All English speakers likely know this word
laity	the body of religious worshipers, as distinguished from the clergy.	noun	8	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
lament	to feel or express sorrow or regret for	verb (used with object)	11	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
lampoon	a sharp, often virulent satire directed against an individual or institution; a work of literature, art, or the like, ridiculing severely the character or behavior of a person, society, etc.	noun	15	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
lance	a long wooden shaft with a pointed metal head, used as a weapon by knights and cavalry soldiers in charging.	noun	10	11-All English speakers likely know this word
lancet	a small surgical instrument, usually sharp-pointed and two-edged, for making small incisions, opening abscesses, etc.	noun	11	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
languid	lacking in vigor or vitality; slack or slow	adjective	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
languish	to be or become weak or feeble; droop; fade.	verb (used without object)	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
languor	lack of energy or vitality; sluggishness.	noun	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
lank	(of plants) unduly long and slender	adjective	10	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
lap	the front part of the human body from the waist to the knees when in a sitting position.	noun	7	8-All English speakers likely know this word
larceny	the wrongful taking and carrying away of the personal goods of another from his or her possession with intent to convert them to the taker's own use.	noun	14	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
larder	a room or place where food is kept; pantry.	noun	8	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
largess	generous bestowal of gifts.	noun	10	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
lascivious	inclined to lustfulness; wanton; lewd	adjective	19	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
lassitude	weariness of body or mind from strain, oppressive climate, etc.; lack of energy; listlessness; languor.	noun	12	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
latch	a device for holding a door, gate, or the like, closed, consisting basically of a bar falling or sliding into a catch, groove, hole, etc.	noun	11	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
latent	present but not visible, apparent, or actualized; existing as potential	adjective	8	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
lateral	of or relating to the side; situated at, proceeding from, or directed to a side	adjective	9	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
latitude	Geography.    the angular distance north or south from the equator of a point on the earth's surface, measured on the meridian of the point.    a place or region as marked by this distance.  	noun	11	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
laud	to praise; extol.	verb (used with object)	7	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
lavish	expended, bestowed, or occurring in profusion	adjective	13	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
lax	not strict or severe; careless or negligent	adjective	11	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
layman	a person who is not a member of the clergy; one of the laity.	noun	13	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
leash	a chain, strap, etc., for controlling or leading a dog or other animal; lead.	noun	8	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
leaven	a substance, as yeast or baking powder, that causes fermentation and expansion of dough or batter.	noun	12	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
leave-taking	a saying farewell; a parting or goodbye; departure	noun	10	74-Few English speakers likely know this word
lechery	unrestrained or excessive indulgence of sexual desire.	noun	15	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
lectern	a reading desk in a church on which the Bible rests and from which the lessons are read during the church service.	noun	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
leery	wary; suspicious (usually followed by of)	adjective	8	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
leeway	extra time, space, materials, or the like, within which to operate; margin	noun	12	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
legacy	Law. a gift of property, especially personal property, as money, by will; a bequest.	noun	14	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
legato	smooth and connected; without breaks between the successive tones.	adjective, adverb	9	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
legend	a nonhistorical or unverifiable story handed down by tradition from earlier times and popularly accepted as historical.	noun	11	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
legerdemain	sleight of hand.	noun	19	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
legislature	a deliberative body of persons, usually elective, who are empowered to make, change, or repeal the laws of a country or state; the branch of government having the power to make laws, as distinguished from the executive and judicial branches of government.	noun	16	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
leniency	the quality or state of being 	noun	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
leonine	of or relating to the 	adjective	10	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
lethal	of, relating to, or causing death; deadly; fatal	adjective	10	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
lethargic	of, relating to, or affected with 	adjective	17	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
levee	an embankment designed to prevent the flooding of a river.	noun	10	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
levitate	to rise or float in the air, especially as a result of a supernatural power that overcomes gravity.	verb (used without object)	13	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
levity	lightness of mind, character, or behavior; lack of appropriate seriousness or earnestness.	noun	13	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
levy	an imposing or collecting, as of a tax, by authority or force.	noun	11	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
lewd	inclined to, characterized by, or inciting to lust or lechery; lascivious.	adjective	9	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
lexicographer	a writer, editor, or compiler of a dictionary.	noun	31	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
lexicon	a wordbook or dictionary, especially of Greek, Latin, or Hebrew.	noun	19	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
liability	liabilities.    moneys owed; debts or pecuniary obligations (opposed to 	noun	16	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
liaison	the contact or connection maintained by communications between units of the armed forces or of any other organization in order to ensure concerted action, cooperation, etc.	noun	9	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
libel	Law.    defamation by written or printed words, pictures, or in any form other than by spoken words or gestures.    the act or crime of publishing it.    a formal written declaration or statement, as one containing the allegations of a plaintiff or the grounds of a charge.  	noun	10	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
libertine	a person who is morally or sexually unrestrained, especially a dissolute man; a profligate; rake.	noun	14	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
libidinous	full of sexual lust; lustful; lewd; lascivious.	adjective	17	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
libido	Psychoanalysis. all of the instinctual energies and desires that are derived from the id.	noun	11	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
libretto	the text or words of an opera or similar extended musical composition.	noun	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
license	formal permission from a governmental or other constituted authority to do something, as to carry on some business or profession.	noun	12	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
licentious	sexually unrestrained; lascivious; libertine; lewd.	adjective	16	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
lien	Law. the legal claim of one person upon the property of another person to secure the payment of a debt or the satisfaction of an obligation.	noun	6	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
ligneous	of the nature of or resembling wood; woody.	adjective	13	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
lilliputian	extremely small; tiny; diminutive.	adjective	19	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
limber	characterized by ease in bending the body; supple; lithe.	adjective	13	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
limbo	(often initial capital letter) Roman Catholic Theology. a region on the border of hell or heaven, serving as the abode after death of unbaptized infants (limbo of infants) and of the righteous who died before the coming of Christ (limbo of the fathers or limbo of the patriarchs)	noun	12	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
limn	to represent in drawing or painting.	verb (used with object)	9	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
limp	to walk with a labored, jerky movement, as when lame.	verb (used without object)	11	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
limpid	clear, transparent, or pellucid, as water, crystal, or air	adjective	14	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
lineage	lineal descent from an ancestor; ancestry or extraction	noun	11	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
lineaments	Often, lineaments. a feature or detail of a face, body, or figure, considered with respect to its outline or contour	noun	15	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
linger	to remain or stay on in a place longer than is usual or expected, as if from reluctance to leave	verb (used without object)	10	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
linguistic	of or belonging to language	adjective	18	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
lionize	to treat (a person) as a celebrity	verb (used with object)	18	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
liquidate	to settle or pay (a debt)	verb (used with object)	21	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
list	a series of names or other items written or printed together in a meaningful grouping or sequence so as to constitute a record	noun	5	2-All English speakers likely know this word
listless	having or showing little or no interest in anything; languid; spiritless; indifferent	adjective	10	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
litany	a ceremonial or liturgical form of prayer consisting of a series of invocations or supplications with responses that are the same for a number in succession.	noun	10	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
lithe	bending readily; pliant; limber; supple; flexible	adjective	8	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
litigation	the act or process of 	noun	14	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
litter	objects strewn or scattered about; scattered rubbish.	noun	7	9-All English speakers likely know this word
livid	having a discolored, bluish appearance caused by a bruise, congestion of blood vessels, strangulation, etc., as the face, flesh, hands, or nails.	adjective	11	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
loath	unwilling; reluctant; disinclined; averse	adjective	8	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
loathe	to feel disgust or intense aversion for; abhor	verb (used with object)	9	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
lode	a veinlike deposit, usually metalliferous.	noun	6	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
loft	a room, storage area, or the like within a sloping roof; attic; garret.	noun	8	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
lofty	extending high in the air; of imposing height; towering	adjective	11	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
log	a portion or length of the trunk or of a large limb of a felled tree.	noun	6	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
loiter	to linger aimlessly or as if aimless in or about a place	verb (used without object)	7	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
loll	to recline or lean in a relaxed, lazy, or indolent manner; lounge	verb (used without object)	7	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
longevity	a long individual life; great duration of individual life	noun	19	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
lookout	the act of looking out or keeping watch.	noun	13	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
loom	a hand-operated or power-driven apparatus for weaving fabrics, containing harnesses, lay, reed, shuttles, treadles, etc.	noun	8	4-All English speakers likely know this word
lope	to move or run with bounding steps, as a quadruped, or with a long, easy stride, as a person.	verb (used without object)	8	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
lopsided	heavier, larger, or more developed on one side than on the other; unevenly balanced; unsymmetrical.	adjective	14	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
loquacious	talking or tending to talk much or freely; talkative; chattering; babbling; garrulous	adjective	25	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
lot	one of a set of objects, as straws or pebbles, drawn or thrown from a container to decide a question or choice by chance.	noun	4	6-All English speakers likely know this word
lottery	a gambling game or method of raising money, as for some public charitable purpose, in which a large number of tickets are sold and a drawing is held for certain prizes.	noun	10	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
lounge	to pass time idly and indolently.	verb (used without object)	11	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
lout	an awkward, stupid person; clumsy, ill-mannered boor; oaf.	noun	6	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
low	situated, placed, or occurring not far above the ground, floor, or base	adjective	7	1-All English speakers likely know this word
lubricate	to apply some oily or greasy substance to (a machine, parts of a mechanism, etc.) in order to diminish friction; oil or grease (something).	verb (used with object)	17	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
lucid	easily understood; completely intelligible or comprehensible	adjective	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
lucrative	profitable; moneymaking; remunerative	adjective	18	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
lucre	monetary reward or gain; money.	noun	10	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
ludicrous	causing laughter because of absurdity; provoking or deserving derision; ridiculous; laughable	adjective	16	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
lugubrious	mournful, dismal, or gloomy, especially in an affected, exaggerated, or unrelieved manner	adjective	19	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
lull	to put to sleep or rest by soothing means	verb (used with object)	8	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
lumber	timber sawed or split into planks, boards, etc.	noun	14	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
lumen	Optics. the unit of luminous flux, equal to the luminous flux emitted in a unit solid angle by a point source of one candle intensity.  Abbreviation	noun	11	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
luminary	a celestial body, as the sun or moon.	noun	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
luminous	radiating or reflecting light; shining; bright.	adjective	15	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
lunar	of or relating to the moon	adjective	8	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
lunatic	(no longer in technical use; now considered offensive) an insane person.	noun	13	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
lurid	gruesome; horrible; revolting	adjective	8	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
lurk	to lie or wait in concealment, as a person in ambush; remain in or around a place secretly or furtively.	verb (used without object)	10	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
luscious	highly pleasing to the taste or smell	adjective	14	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
lush	(of vegetation, plants, grasses, etc.) luxuriant; succulent; tender and juicy.	adjective	8	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
lust	intense sexual desire or appetite.	noun	6	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
luster	the state or quality of shining by reflecting light; glitter, sparkle, sheen, or gloss	noun	8	10-All English speakers likely know this word
lustrous	having 	adjective	11	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
luxuriant	abundant or lush in growth, as vegetation.	adjective	20	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
luxuriate	to enjoy oneself without stint; revel	verb (used without object)	19	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
macabre	gruesome and horrifying; ghastly; horrible.	adjective	16	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
mace	a clublike armor-breaking weapon of war, often with a flanged or spiked metal head, used chiefly in the Middle Ages.	noun	10	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
macerate	to soften or separate into parts by steeping in a liquid.	verb (used with object)	14	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
Machiavellian	of, like, or befitting 	adjective	0	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
machinations	an act or instance of 	noun	22	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
maculated	spotted; stained.	adjective	16	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
madrigal	a secular part song without instrumental accompaniment, usually for four to six voices, making abundant use of contrapuntal imitation, popular especially in the 16th and 17th centuries.	noun	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
maelstrom	a large, powerful, or violent whirlpool.	noun	16	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
magisterial	of, relating to, or befitting a master; authoritative; weighty; of importance or consequence	adjective	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
magistrate	a civil officer charged with the administration of the law.	noun	15	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
magnanimity	the quality of being 	noun	23	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
magnate	a person of great influence, importance, or standing in a particular enterprise, field of business, etc.	noun	13	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
magniloquent	speaking or expressed in a lofty or grandiose style; pompous; bombastic; boastful.	adjective	30	66-Few English speakers likely know this word
magnitude	size; extent; dimensions	noun	17	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
maim	to deprive of the use of some part of the body by wounding or the like; cripple	verb (used with object)	10	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
makeshift	a temporary expedient or substitute	noun	21	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
maladroit	lacking in adroitness; unskillful; awkward; bungling; tactless	adjective	14	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
malady	any disorder or disease of the body, especially one that is chronic or deepseated.	noun	13	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
malaise	a condition of general bodily weakness or discomfort, often marking the onset of a disease.	noun	11	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
malapropism	an act or habit of misusing words ridiculously, especially by the confusion of words that are similar in sound.	noun	24	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
malapropos	inappropriate; out of place; inopportune; untimely	adjective	20	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
malcontent	not satisfied or 	adjective	19	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
malediction	a curse; imprecation.	noun	20	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
malefactor	a person who violates the law; criminal.	noun	20	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
maleficent	doing evil or harm; harmfully malicious	adjective	21	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
malevolent	wishing evil or harm to another or others; showing ill will; ill-disposed; malicious	adjective	20	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
malfeasance	the performance by a public official of an act that is legally unjustified, harmful, or contrary to law; wrongdoing (used especially of an act in violation of a public trust).  Compare  	noun	22	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
malicious	full of, characterized by, or showing 	adjective	17	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
malign	to speak harmful untruths about; speak evil of; slander; defame	verb (used with object)	13	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
malignant	disposed to cause harm, suffering, or distress deliberately; feeling or showing ill will or hatred.	adjective	17	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
malingerer	to pretend illness, especially in order to shirk one's duty, avoid work, etc.	verb (used without object)	17	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
malleable	capable of being extended or shaped by hammering or by pressure from rollers.	adjective	18	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
malodorous	having an unpleasant or offensive odor; smelling bad	adjective	16	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
mammal	any vertebrate of the class Mammalia, having the body more or less covered with hair, nourishing the young with milk from the mammary glands, and, with the exception of the egg-laying monotremes, giving birth to live young.	noun	16	9-All English speakers likely know this word
mammoth	any large, elephantlike mammal of the extinct genus Mammuthus, from the Pleistocene Epoch, having hairy skin and ridged molar teeth.	noun	18	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
manacle	a shackle for the hand; handcuff.	noun	15	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
mandate	a command or authorization to act in a particular way on a public issue given by the electorate to its representative	noun	12	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
mandatory	authoritatively ordered; obligatory; compulsory	adjective	16	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
maneuver	a planned and regulated movement or evolution of troops, warships, etc.	noun	17	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
mange	any of various skin diseases caused by parasitic mites, affecting animals and sometimes humans and characterized by loss of hair and scabby eruptions.	noun	11	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
mangle	to injure severely, disfigure, or mutilate by cutting, slashing, or crushing	verb (used with object)	13	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
mangy	having, caused by, or like the 	adjective	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
maniacal	of or relating to mania or a 	adjective	16	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
manifest	readily perceived by the eye or the understanding; evident; obvious; apparent; plain	adjective	15	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
manifestation	an act of 	noun	21	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
manifesto	a public declaration of intentions, opinions, objectives, or motives, as one issued by a government, sovereign, or organization.	noun	16	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
manifold	of many kinds; numerous and varied	adjective	17	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
manipulate	to manage or influence skillfully, especially in an unfair manner	verb (used with object)	19	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
mannered	having 	adjective	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
mannerism	a habitual or characteristic 	noun	17	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
mantle	a loose, sleeveless cloak or cape.	noun	11	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
manumit	to release from slavery or servitude.	verb (used with object)	15	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
mar	to damage or spoil to a certain extent; render less perfect, attractive, useful, etc.; impair or spoil	verb (used with object)	6	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
maraud	to roam or go around in quest of plunder; make a raid for booty	verb (used without object)	11	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
margin	the space around the printed or written matter on a page.	noun	12	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
marginal	pertaining to a margin.	adjective	15	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
marital	of or relating to 	adverb	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
maritime	connected with the sea in relation to navigation, shipping, etc.	adjective	14	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
marked	strikingly noticeable; conspicuous	adjective	14	9-All English speakers likely know this word
maroon	dark brownish-red.	adjective	10	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
marred	to damage or spoil to a certain extent; render less perfect, attractive, useful, etc.; impair or spoil	verb (used with object)	10	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
marrow	Anatomy. a soft, fatty, vascular tissue in the interior cavities of bones that is a major site of blood cell production.	noun	12	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
marshal	a military officer of the highest rank, as in the French and some other armies.  Compare  	noun	13	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
marsupial	any viviparous, nonplacental mammal of the order Marsupialia, comprising the opossums, kangaroos, wombats, and bandicoots, the females of most species having a marsupium containing the mammary glands and serving as a receptacle for the young.	noun	17	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
martial	inclined or disposed to war; warlike	adjective	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
martinet	a strict disciplinarian, especially a military one.	noun	12	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
martyr	a person who willingly suffers death rather than renounce his or her religion.	noun	11	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
mash	to crush	verb (used with object)	9	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
masochism	Psychiatry. the condition in which sexual gratification depends on suffering physical pain or humiliation.	noun	20	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
mason	a person whose trade is building with units of various natural or artificial mineral products, as stones, bricks, cinder blocks, or tiles, usually with the use of mortar or cement as a bonding agent.	noun	9	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
masquerade	a party, dance, or other festive gathering of persons wearing masks and other disguises, and often elegant, historical, or fantastic costumes.	noun	24	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
mass	a body of coherent matter, usually of indefinite shape and often of considerable size	noun	7	5-All English speakers likely know this word
masticate	to chew.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	15	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
mat	a piece of fabric made of plaited or woven rushes, straw, hemp, or similar fiber, or of some other pliant material, as rubber, used as a protective covering on a floor or other surface, to wipe the shoes on, etc.	noun	6	9-All English speakers likely know this word
materialism	preoccupation with or emphasis on 	noun	18	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
maternal	of, pertaining to, having the qualities of, or befitting a mother	adjective	13	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
matinee	an entertainment, especially a dramatic or musical performance, held in the daytime, usually in the afternoon.	noun	11	68-Few English speakers likely know this word
matriarch	the female head of a family or tribal line.	noun	17	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
matriculate	to enroll in a college or university as a candidate for a degree.	verb (used with object)	19	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
matrimony	the state of being married; marriage	noun	18	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
matrix	something that constitutes the place or point from which something else originates, takes form, or develops	noun	16	10-All English speakers likely know this word
maudlin	tearfully or weakly emotional; foolishly sentimental	adjective	14	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
maul	a heavy hammer, as for driving stakes or wedges.	noun	9	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
mausoleum	a stately and magnificent tomb.	noun	18	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
mauve	a pale bluish purple.	noun	13	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
maverick	Southwestern U.S. an unbranded calf, cow, or steer, especially an unbranded calf that is separated from its mother.	noun	22	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
mawkish	characterized by sickly sentimentality; weakly emotional; maudlin.	adjective	19	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
maxim	an expression of a general truth or principle, especially an aphoristic or sententious one	noun	18	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
mayhem	Law. the crime of willfully inflicting a bodily injury on another so as to make the victim less capable of self-defense or, under modern statutes, so as to cripple or mutilate the victim.	noun	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
meager	deficient in quantity or quality; lacking fullness or richness; scanty; inadequate	adjective	11	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
mealymouthed	avoiding the use of direct and plain language, as from timidity, excessive delicacy, or hypocrisy; inclined to mince words; insincere, devious, or compromising.	adjective	11	75-Few English speakers likely know this word
meander	to proceed by or take a winding or indirect course	verb (used without object)	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
meddlesome	given to 	adjective	19	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
mediate	to settle (disputes, strikes, etc.) as an intermediary between parties; reconcile.	verb (used with object)	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
mediocre	of only ordinary or moderate quality; neither good nor bad; barely adequate	adjective	15	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
meditation	the act of 	noun	15	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
medium	a middle state or condition; mean.	noun	14	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
medley	a mixture, especially of heterogeneous elements; hodgepodge; jumble.	noun	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
meek	humbly patient or docile, as under provocation from others.	adjective	11	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
megalomania	Psychiatry. a symptom of mental illness marked by delusions of greatness, wealth, etc.	noun	21	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
melancholy	a gloomy state of mind, especially when habitual or prolonged; depression.	noun	23	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
melee	a confused hand-to-hand fight or struggle among several people.	noun	9	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
mellifluous	sweetly or smoothly flowing; sweet-sounding	adjective	22	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
memento	an object or item that serves to remind one of a person, past event, etc.; keepsake; souvenir.	noun	14	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
memoir	a record of events written by a person having intimate knowledge of them and based on personal observation.	noun	12	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
memorial	something designed to preserve the 	noun	15	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
memorialize	to commemorate.	verb (used with object)	27	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
menace	something that threatens to cause evil, harm, injury, etc.; a threat	noun	13	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
menagerie	a collection of wild or unusual animals, especially for exhibition.	noun	15	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
mendacious	telling lies, especially habitually; dishonest; lying; untruthful	adjective	19	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
mendicant	begging; practicing begging; living on alms.	adjective	18	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
menial	lowly and sometimes degrading	adjective	11	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
mentor	a wise and trusted counselor or teacher.	noun	10	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
mercantile	of or relating to merchants or trade; commercial.	adjective	18	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
mercenary	working or acting merely for money or other reward; venal.	adjective	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
mercurial	changeable; volatile; fickle; flighty; erratic	adjective	17	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
meretricious	alluring by a show of flashy or vulgar attractions; tawdry.	adjective	19	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
merger	a statutory combination of two or more corporations by the transfer of the properties to one surviving corporation.	noun	11	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
merit	claim to respect and praise; excellence; worth.	noun	8	6-All English speakers likely know this word
mesmerize	to hypnotize.	verb (used with object)	24	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
metallurgical	the technique or science of working or heating metals so as to give them certain desired shapes or properties.	noun	25	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
metamorphosis	Biology. a profound change in form from one stage to the next in the life history of an organism, as from the caterpillar to the pupa and from the pupa to the adult butterfly.  Compare  	noun	24	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
metaphysical	pertaining to or of the nature of metaphysics.	adjective	26	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
mete	to distribute or apportion by measure; allot; dole (usually followed by out)	verb (used with object)	7	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
meteoric	of, relating to, or consisting of 	adjective	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
meter	the fundamental unit of length in the 	noun	8	8-All English speakers likely know this word
methodical	performed, disposed, or acting in a systematic way; systematic; orderly	adjective	20	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
meticulous	taking or showing extreme care about minute details; precise; thorough	adjective	19	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
metrical	pertaining to 	adjective	15	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
metropolis	any large, busy city.	noun	17	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
mettle	courage and fortitude	noun	10	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
miasma	noxious exhalations from putrescent organic matter; poisonous effluvia or germs polluting the atmosphere.	noun	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
microcosm	a little world; a world in miniature (opposed to 	noun	21	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
migrant		adjective	13	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
migratory		adjective	16	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
milieu	surroundings, especially of a social or cultural nature	noun	11	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
militant	vigorously active and aggressive, especially in support of a cause	adjective	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
militate	to have a substantial effect; weigh heavily	verb (used without object)	12	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
militia	a body of citizens enrolled for military service, and called out periodically for drill but serving full time only in emergencies.	noun	11	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
millennium	a period of 1000 years.	noun	21	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
mime	the art or technique of portraying a character, mood, idea, or narration by gestures and bodily movements; pantomime.	noun	10	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
mimicry	the act, practice, or art of 	noun	18	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
minatory	menacing; threatening.	adjective	14	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
mincing	(of the gait, speech, behavior, etc.) affectedly dainty, nice, or elegant.	adjective	17	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
mingle	to become mixed, blended, or united.	verb (used without object)	13	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
miniature	a representation or image of something on a small or reduced scale.	noun	14	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
minion	a servile follower or subordinate of a person in power.	noun	11	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
minuscule	very small.	adjective	19	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
minute	the sixtieth part (1/60) of an hour; sixty seconds.	noun	11	7-All English speakers likely know this word
minutiae	Usually, minutiae. precise details; small or trifling matters	noun	13	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
mirage	an optical phenomenon, especially in the desert or at sea, by which the image of some object appears displaced above, below, or to one side of its true position as a result of spatial variations of the index of refraction of air.	noun	11	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
mire	a tract or area of wet, swampy ground; bog; marsh.	noun	7	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
mirth	gaiety or jollity, especially when accompanied by laughter	noun	10	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
misadventure	an instance of bad fortune; mishap.	noun	22	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
misanthrope	a hater of humankind.	noun	20	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
misapprehension		noun	28	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
miscellaneous	consisting of members or elements of different kinds; of mixed character	adjective	23	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
miscellany	a 	noun	21	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
mischance	a mishap or misfortune.	noun	21	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
mischief	conduct or activity that playfully causes petty annoyance.	noun	19	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
misconduct	improper 	noun	22	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
misconstrue	to misunderstand the meaning of; take in a wrong sense; misinterpret.	verb (used with object)	19	68-Few English speakers likely know this word
miscreant	depraved, villainous, or base.	adjective	16	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
misdemeanor	Law. a criminal offense defined as less serious than a felony.	noun	19	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
miserly	of, like, or befitting a 	adjective	13	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
misgivings	Often, misgivings. a feeling of doubt, distrust, or apprehension.	noun	21	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
mishap	an unfortunate accident.	noun	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
misnomer	a misapplied or inappropriate name or designation.	noun	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
misogamy	hatred of marriage.	noun	18	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
misogyny	hatred, dislike, or mistrust of women, or prejudice against women.	noun	18	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
missile	an object or weapon for throwing, hurling, or shooting, as a stone, bullet, or arrow.	noun	11	9-All English speakers likely know this word
missive	a written message; letter.	noun	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
mite	any of numerous small to microscopic arachnids of the subclass Acari, including species that are parasitic on animals and plants or that feed on decaying matter and stored foods.	noun	7	7-All English speakers likely know this word
mitigate	to lessen in force or intensity, as wrath, grief, harshness, or pain; moderate.	verb (used with object)	13	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
mnemonic	assisting or intended to assist the memory.	adjective	19	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
mobile	capable of moving or being moved readily.	adjective	13	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
mock	to attack or treat with ridicule, contempt, or derision.	verb (used with object)	14	6-All English speakers likely know this word
mode	a manner of acting or doing; method; way	noun	8	5-All English speakers likely know this word
modicum	a moderate or small amount	noun	18	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
modish	in the current fashion; stylish.	adjective	12	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
modulate	to regulate by or adjust to a certain measure or proportion; soften; tone down.	verb (used with object)	14	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
mogul	a bump or mound of hard snow on a ski slope.	noun	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
molecule	Chemistry, Physics. the smallest physical unit of an element or compound, consisting of one or more like atoms in an element and two or more different atoms in a compound.	noun	17	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
mollify	to soften in feeling or temper, as a person; pacify; appease.	verb (used with object)	17	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
mollycoddle	a man or boy who is used to being 	noun	24	73-Few English speakers likely know this word
molten	a past participle of 	verb	11	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
molt	(of birds, insects, reptiles, etc.) to cast or shed the feathers, skin, or the like, that will be replaced by a new growth.	verb (used without object)	8	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
momentous	of great or far-reaching importance or consequence	adjective	17	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
momentum	force or speed of movement; impetus, as of a physical object or course of events	noun	19	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
monarchy	a state or nation in which the supreme power is actually or nominally lodged in a monarch.  Compare  	noun	19	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
monastic	of or relating to monasteries	adjective	15	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
monetary	of or relating to the coinage or currency of a country.	adjective	14	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
mongrel	a dog of mixed or indeterminate breed.	noun	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
monochromatic	of or having one color.	adjective	28	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
monochrome	a painting or drawing in different shades of a single color.	noun	22	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
monogram	a design consisting of two or more alphabetic letters combined or interlaced, commonly one's initials, often printed on stationery, embroidered on clothing, etc.	noun	17	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
monograph	a treatise on a particular subject, as a biographical study or study of the works of one artist.	noun	20	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
monolithic	of or relating to a 	adjective	20	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
monotheism	the doctrine or belief that there is only one God.	noun	19	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
monotony	wearisome uniformity or lack of variety, as in occupation or scenery.	noun	15	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
monumental	resembling a 	adjective	20	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
moodiness	given to gloomy, depressed, or sullen 	adjective	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
moratorium	a suspension of activity	noun	17	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
morbid	suggesting an unhealthy mental state or attitude; unwholesomely gloomy, sensitive, extreme, etc.	adjective	13	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
mordant	sharply caustic or sarcastic, as wit or a speaker; biting.	adjective	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
mores	folkways of central importance accepted without question and embodying the fundamental moral views of a group.	plural noun	8	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
morgue	a place in which bodies are kept, especially the bodies of victims of violence or accidents, pending identification or burial.	noun	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
moribund	in a dying state; near death.	adjective	17	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
morose	gloomily or sullenly ill-humored, as a person or mood.	adjective	9	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
mortar	a receptacle of hard material, having a bowl-shaped cavity in which substances are reduced to powder with a pestle.	noun	9	6-All English speakers likely know this word
mortician		noun	16	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
mortify	to humiliate or shame, as by injury to one's pride or self-respect.	verb (used with object)	15	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
mosaic	a picture or decoration made of small, usually colored pieces of inlaid stone, glass, etc.	noun	12	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
mote	a small particle or speck, especially of dust.	noun	7	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
motif	a recurring subject, theme, idea, etc., especially in a literary, artistic, or musical work.	noun	11	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
motility	Biology. moving or capable of moving spontaneously	adjective	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
motley	exhibiting great diversity of elements	adjective	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
mottled	spotted or blotched in coloring.	adjective	12	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
motto	a maxim adopted as an expression of the guiding principle of a person, organization, city, etc.	noun	8	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
mountebank	a person who sells quack medicines, as from a platform in public places, attracting and influencing an audience by tricks, storytelling, etc.	noun	23	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
muddle	to mix up in a confused or bungling manner; jumble.	verb (used with object)	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
muggy	(of the atmosphere, weather, etc.) oppressively humid; damp and close.	adjective	15	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
mulct	to deprive (someone) of something, as by fraud, extortion, etc.; swindle.	verb (used with object)	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
multifarious	having many different parts, elements, forms, etc.	adjective	21	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
multiform	having many different shapes, forms, or kinds.	adjective	20	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
multilingual	using or able to speak several or many languages with some facility.	adjective	23	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
multiplicity	a large number or variety	noun	26	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
mundane	common; ordinary; banal; unimaginative.	adjective	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
munificent	extremely liberal in giving; very generous.	adjective	22	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
mural	a large picture painted or affixed directly on a wall or ceiling.	noun	10	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
murky	dark, gloomy, and cheerless.	adjective	15	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
murmur	a low, continuous sound, as of a brook, the wind, or trees, or of low, indistinct voices.	noun	14	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
muse	to think or meditate in silence, as on some subject.	verb (used without object)	8	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
musky	of or like 	adjective	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
muster	to assemble (troops, a ship's crew, etc.), as for battle, display, inspection, orders, or discharge.	verb (used with object)	10	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
musty	having an odor or flavor suggestive of mold, as old buildings, long-closed rooms, or stale food.	adjective	11	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
mutable	liable or subject to change or alteration.	adjective	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
mute	silent; refraining from speech or utterance.	adjective	8	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
muted	of low intensity and reduced volume; softened	adjective	10	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
mutilate	to injure, disfigure, or make imperfect by removing or irreparably damaging parts	verb (used with object)	13	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
mutinous	disposed to, engaged in, or involving revolt against authority.	adjective	14	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
mutter	to utter words indistinctly or in a low tone, often as if talking to oneself; murmur.	verb (used without object)	10	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
myopic	Ophthalmology. pertaining to or having 	adjective	17	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
myriad	a very great or indefinitely great number of persons or things.	noun	12	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
mystic	involving or characterized by esoteric, otherworldly, or symbolic practices or content, as certain religious ceremonies and art; spiritually significant; ethereal.	adjective	14	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
nadir	Astronomy. the point on the celestial sphere directly beneath a given position or observer and diametrically opposite the zenith.	noun	7	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
naivete	the quality or state of being naive; natural or artless simplicity.	noun	12	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
narcissism	inordinate fascination with oneself; excessive self-love; vanity.  Synonyms	noun	17	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
narrative	a story or account of events, experiences, or the like, whether true or fictitious.	noun	14	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
nascent	beginning to exist or develop	adjective	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
natal	of or relating to a person's birth	adjective	7	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
natation	an act or the skill of swimming.	noun	10	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
natty	neatly or trimly smart in dress or appearance; spruce	adjective	8	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
nausea	sickness at the stomach, especially when accompanied by a loathing for food and an involuntary impulse to vomit.	noun	8	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
nauseate	to affect with 	verb (used with object)	10	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
nauseous	affected with 	adjective	11	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
nautical	of or relating to sailors, ships, or navigation	adjective	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
navigable	deep and wide enough to provide passage to ships	adjective	20	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
nebula	Astronomy.    Also called diffuse nebula. a cloud of interstellar gas and dust.      Compare    	noun	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
nebulous	hazy, vague, indistinct, or confused	adjective	15	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
necromancy	a method of divination through alleged communication with the dead; black art.	noun	23	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
nectar	the saccharine secretion of a plant, which attracts the insects or birds that pollinate the flower.	noun	10	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
nefarious	extremely wicked or villainous; iniquitous	adjective	14	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
negate	to deny the existence, evidence, or truth of	verb (used with object)	9	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
negligence	the quality, fact, or result of being 	noun	20	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
negligible	so small, trifling, or unimportant that it may safely be neglected or disregarded	adjective	20	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
nemesis	something that a person cannot conquer, achieve, etc.	noun	11	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
neologism	a new word, meaning, usage, or phrase.	noun	16	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
neophyte	a beginner or novice	noun	16	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
nepotism	patronage bestowed or favoritism shown on the basis of family relationship, as in business and politics	noun	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
nether	lying or believed to lie beneath the earth's surface; infernal	adjective	9	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
nettle	any plant of the genus Urtica, covered with stinging hairs.  Compare  	noun	8	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
nexus	a means of connection; tie; link.	noun	14	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
nib	the point of a pen, or either of its divisions.	noun	7	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
nicety	a delicate or fine point; punctilio	noun	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
niggardly	reluctant to give or spend; stingy; miserly.	adjective	18	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
niggle	to criticize, especially constantly or repeatedly, in a peevish or petty way; carp	verb (used without object)	12	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
nihilist	total rejection of established laws and institutions.	noun	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
nimble	quick and light in movement; moving with ease; agile; active; rapid	adjective	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
nip	to squeeze or compress tightly between two surfaces or points; pinch; bite.	verb (used with object)	7	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
nirvana	(often initial capital letter). Pali 	noun	13	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
nocturnal	of or relating to the night (opposed to 	adjective	16	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
noisome	offensive or disgusting, as an odor.	adjective	11	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
nomadic	of, relating to, or characteristic of nomads.	adjective	15	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
nomenclature	a set or system of names or terms, as those used in a particular science or art, by an individual or community, etc.	noun	22	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
nominal	being such in name only; so-called; putative	adjective	13	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
nonchalance	the state or quality of being 	noun	23	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
noncommittal	not committing oneself, or not involving 	adjective	24	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
nondescript	of no recognized, definite, or particular type or kind	adjective	20	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
nonentity	a person or thing of no importance.	noun	14	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
nonplus	to render utterly perplexed; puzzle completely.	verb (used with object)	14	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
nonsense	words or language having little or no 	noun	11	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
noose	a loop with a running knot, as in a snare, lasso, or hangman's halter, that tightens as the rope is pulled.	noun	6	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
nostalgia	a wistful desire to return in thought or in fact to a former time in one's life, to one's home or homeland, or to one's family and friends; a sentimental yearning for the happiness of a former place or time	noun	13	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
nostrum	a medicine sold with false or exaggerated claims and with no demonstrable value; quack medicine.	noun	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
notable	worthy of note or notice; noteworthy	adjective	12	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
notch	an angular or V -shaped cut, indentation, or slit in an object, surface, or edge.	noun	11	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
notoriety	the state, quality, or character of being notorious or widely known	noun	12	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
nourish	to sustain with food or nutriment; supply with what is necessary for life, health, and growth.	verb (used with object)	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
nourishment	something that 	noun	19	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
nova	a star that suddenly becomes thousands of times brighter and then gradually fades to its original intensity.	noun	9	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
novelty	state or quality of being 	noun	15	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
novice	a person who is new to the circumstances, work, etc., in which he or she is placed; beginner; tyro	noun	14	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
noxious	harmful or injurious to health or physical well-being	adjective	16	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
nuance	a subtle difference or distinction in expression, meaning, response, etc.	noun	12	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
nubile	(of a young woman) suitable for marriage, especially in regard to age or physical development; marriageable.	adjective	12	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
nugatory	of no real value; trifling; worthless.	adjective	14	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
nullify	to render or declare legally void or inoperative	verb (used with object)	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
numismatist	a specialist in 	noun	19	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
nuptial	of or relating to marriage or the marriage ceremony	adjective	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
nuptial	of or relating to marriage or the marriage ceremony	adjective	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
nurse	a person formally educated and trained in the care of the sick or infirm.  Compare  	noun	7	6-All English speakers likely know this word
nurture	to feed and protect	verb (used with object)	10	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
nutrient		adjective	11	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
nutrition	the act or process of nourishing or of being nourished.	noun	12	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
nutritious	providing nourishment, especially to a high degree; nourishing; healthful	adjective	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
oaf	a clumsy, stupid person; lout.	noun	6	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
oath	a solemn appeal to a deity, or to some revered person or thing, to witness one's determination to speak the truth, to keep a promise, etc.	noun	6	5-All English speakers likely know this word
oatmeal		noun	11	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
obdurate	unmoved by persuasion, pity, or tender feelings; stubborn; unyielding.	adjective	13	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
obeisance	a movement of the body expressing deep respect or deferential courtesy, as before a superior; a bow, curtsy, or other similar gesture.	noun	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
obelisk	a tapering, four-sided shaft of stone, usually monolithic and having a pyramidal apex.	noun	15	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
obese	very fat or overweight; corpulent.	adjective	8	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
obfuscate	to confuse, bewilder, or stupefy.	verb (used with object)	19	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
obituary	a notice of the death of a person, often with a biographical sketch, as in a newspaper.	noun	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
objective	something that one's efforts or actions are intended to attain or accomplish; purpose; goal; target	noun	28	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
obligatory	required as a matter of obligation; mandatory	adjective	18	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
oblique	neither perpendicular nor parallel to a given line or surface; slanting; sloping.	adjective	21	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
obliterate	to remove or destroy all traces of; do away with; destroy completely.	verb (used with object)	14	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
oblivion	the state of being completely forgotten or unknown	noun	17	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
oblivious	unmindful; unconscious; unaware (usually followed by of or to)	adjective	18	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
obloquy	censure, blame, or abusive language aimed at a person or thing, especially by numerous persons or by the general public.	noun	23	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
obnoxious	highly objectionable or offensive; odious	adjective	21	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
obscure	(of meaning) not clear or plain; ambiguous, vague, or uncertain	adjective	14	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
obsequious	characterized by or showing servile complaisance or deference; fawning	adjective	24	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
obsequy	a funeral rite or ceremony.	noun	22	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
obsessive	being, pertaining to, or resembling an 	adjective	16	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
obsidian	a volcanic glass similar in composition to granite, usually dark but transparent in thin pieces, and having a good conchoidal fracture.	noun	13	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
obsolete	no longer in general use; fallen into disuse	adjective	12	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
obstetrician	a physician who specializes in 	noun	19	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
obstinate	firmly or stubbornly adhering to one's purpose, opinion, etc.; not yielding to argument, persuasion, or entreaty.	adjective	13	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
obstreperous	resisting control or restraint in a difficult manner; unruly.	adjective	19	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
obtrude	to thrust (something) forward or upon a person, especially without warrant or invitation	verb (used with object)	12	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
obtuse	not quick or alert in perception, feeling, or intellect; not sensitive or observant; dull.	adjective	10	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
obviate	to anticipate and prevent or eliminate (difficulties, disadvantages, etc.) by effective measures; render unnecessary	verb (used with object)	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
Occident	the Occident.    the West; the countries of Europe and America.    	noun	16	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
occlude	to close, shut, or stop up (a passage, opening, etc.).	verb (used with object)	16	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
occult	of or relating to magic, astrology, or any system claiming use or knowledge of secret or supernatural powers or agencies.	adjective	14	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
oculist		noun	12	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
odds	the probability that something is so, will occur, or is more likely to occur than something else	noun	6	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
odious	deserving or causing hatred; hateful; detestable.	adjective	8	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
odium	intense hatred or dislike, especially toward a person or thing regarded as contemptible, despicable, or repugnant.	noun	10	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
odoriferous	yielding or diffusing an 	adjective	16	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
odorous		adjective	9	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
odyssey	(italics) an epic poem attributed to Homer, describing Odysseus's adventures in his ten-year attempt to return home to Ithaca after the Trojan War.	noun	12	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
offensive	causing resentful displeasure; highly irritating, angering, or annoying	adjective	20	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
offhand	cavalierly, curtly, or brusquely	adverb	17	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
officious	objectionably aggressive in offering one's unrequested and unwanted services, help, or advice; meddlesome	adjective	19	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
ogle	to look at amorously, flirtatiously, or impertinently.	verb (used with object)	7	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
olfactory	of or relating to the sense of smell	adjective	18	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
oligarchy	a form of government in which all power is vested in a few persons or in a dominant class or clique; government by the few.	noun	19	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
ominous	portending evil or harm; foreboding; threatening; inauspicious	adjective	12	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
omnipotent	almighty or infinite in power, as God.	adjective	18	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
omnipresent	present everywhere at the same time	adjective	19	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
omniscient	having complete or unlimited knowledge, awareness, or understanding; perceiving all things.	adjective	18	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
omnivorous	eating both animal and plant foods.	adjective	19	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
onerous	burdensome, oppressive, or troublesome; causing hardship	adjective	9	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
onomatopoeia	the formation of a word, as cuckoo, meow, honk, or boom, by imitation of a sound made by or associated with its referent.	noun	19	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
onslaught	an onset, assault, or attack, especially a vigorous one.	noun	16	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
onus	a difficult or disagreeable obligation, task, burden, etc.	noun	6	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
ooze	(of moisture, liquid, etc.) to flow, percolate, or exude slowly, as through holes or small openings.	verb (used without object)	13	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
opalescent	exhibiting a play of colors like that of the 	adjective	18	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
opaque	not transparent or translucent; impenetrable to light; not allowing light to pass through.	adjective	19	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
opiate	a drug containing opium or its derivatives, used in medicine for inducing sleep and relieving pain.	noun	9	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
opportune	appropriate, favorable, or suitable	adjective	17	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
opportunism	the policy or practice, as in politics, business, or one's personal affairs, of adapting actions, decisions, etc., to expediency or effectiveness regardless of the sacrifice of ethical principles.	noun	22	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
opprobrium	the disgrace or the reproach incurred by conduct considered outrageously shameful; infamy.	noun	23	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
optician	a person who makes or sells eyeglasses and, usually, contact lenses, for remedying defects of vision in accordance with the prescriptions of ophthalmologists and optometrists.	noun	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
optimist	an 	noun	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
optimum	the best or most favorable point, degree, amount, etc., as of temperature, light, and moisture for the growth or reproduction of an organism.	noun	17	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
optional	left to one's choice; not required or mandatory	adjective	13	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
optometrist	a licensed professional who practices 	noun	17	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
opulence	wealth, riches, or affluence.	noun	17	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
opus	a musical composition.	noun	8	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
oracular	of the nature of, resembling, or suggesting an 	adjective	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
orator	a person who delivers an 	noun	6	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
oratorio	an extended musical composition with a text more or less dramatic in character and usually based upon a religious theme, for solo voices, chorus, and orchestra, and performed without action, costume, or scenery.	noun	8	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
ordain	to invest with ministerial or sacerdotal functions; confer holy orders upon.	verb (used with object)	8	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
ordeal	any extremely severe or trying test, experience, or trial.	noun	8	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
ordinance	an authoritative rule or law; a decree or command.	noun	15	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
ordination	Ecclesiastical. the act or ceremony of 	noun	13	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
orgy	wild or drunken festivity or revelry, especially involving sex with multiple participants.	noun	8	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
orient	the Orient,    the countries of Asia, especially East Asia.    (formerly) the countries to the E of the Mediterranean.  	noun	7	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
orientation	the act or process of orienting.	noun	13	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
orifice	an opening or aperture, as of a tube or pipe; a mouthlike opening or hole; mouth; vent.	noun	13	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
ornate	elaborately or sumptuously adorned, often excessively or showily so	adjective	7	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
ornithologist	the branch of zoology that deals with birds.	noun	19	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
orthodox	of, relating to, or conforming to the approved form of any doctrine, philosophy, ideology, etc.	adjective	18	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
orthography	the art of writing words with the proper letters, according to accepted usage; correct spelling.	noun	22	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
oscillate	to swing or move to and fro, as a pendulum does.	verb (used without object)	14	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
osseous	composed of, containing, or resembling bone; bony.	adjective	8	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
ossify	to convert into or cause to harden like bone.	verb (used with object)	11	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
ostensible	outwardly appearing as such; professed; pretended	adjective	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
ostentatious	characterized by or given to pretentious or conspicuous show in an attempt to impress others	adjective	14	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
ostracize	to exclude, by general consent, from society, friendship, conversation, privileges, etc.	verb (used with object)	21	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
oust	to expel or remove from a place or position occupied	verb (used with object)	5	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
outcast	a person who is rejected or 	noun	11	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
outfit	an assemblage of articles that equip a person for a particular task, role, trade, etc.	noun	10	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
outgoing		adjective	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
outlandish	freakishly or grotesquely strange or odd, as appearance, dress, objects, ideas, or practices; bizarre	adjective	16	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
outlaw	a lawless person or habitual criminal, especially one who is a fugitive from the law.	noun	11	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
outlook	the view or prospect from a particular place.	noun	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
outmoded	gone out of style; no longer fashionable	adjective	14	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
outrage	an act of wanton cruelty or violence; any gross violation of law or decency.	noun	10	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
outskirts	Often, outskirts. the outlying district or region, as of a city, metropolitan area, or the like	noun	14	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
outspoken	uttered or expressed with frankness or without reserve	adjective	18	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
outstrip	to outdo; surpass; excel.	verb (used with object)	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
outwit	to get the better of by superior ingenuity or cleverness; outsmart	verb (used with object)	10	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
ovation	an enthusiastic public reception of a person, marked especially by loud and prolonged applause.	noun	12	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
overbearing	domineering; dictatorial; haughtily or rudely arrogant.	adjective	21	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
overblown	overdone or excessive	adjective	21	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
oversee	to direct (work or workers); supervise; manage	verb (used with object)	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
overt	open to view or knowledge; not concealed or secret	adjective	9	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
overthrow	to depose, as from a position of power; overcome, defeat, or vanquish	verb (used with object)	18	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
overture	an opening or initiating move toward negotiations, a new relationship, an agreement, etc.; a formal or informal proposal or offer	noun	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
overturn	to destroy the power of; overthrow; defeat; vanquish.	verb (used with object)	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
overweening	presumptuously conceited, overconfident, or proud	adjective	22	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
overwhelm	to overcome completely in mind or feeling	verb (used with object)	22	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
overwrought	extremely or excessively excited or agitated	adjective	23	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
ovoid	egg-shaped; having the solid form of an egg.	adjective	10	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
pachyderm	any of the thick-skinned, nonruminant ungulates, as the elephant, hippopotamus, and rhinoceros.	noun	23	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
pacifist	a person who believes in 	noun	17	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
pacify	to bring or restore to a state of 	verb (used with object)	17	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
padre	father (used especially in addressing or referring to a priest or member of the clergy).	noun	9	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
paean	any song of praise, joy, or triumph.	noun	9	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
painstaking		adjective	22	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
palatable	acceptable or agreeable to the 	adjective	17	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
palate	Anatomy. the roof of the mouth, consisting of an anterior bony portion (hard palate) and a posterior muscular portion (soft palate) that separate the oral cavity from the nasal cavity.	noun	10	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
palatial	of, relating to, or resembling a 	adjective	13	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
paleontology	the science of the forms of life existing in former geologic periods, as represented by their fossils.	noun	22	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
palette	a thin and usually oval or oblong board or tablet with a thumb hole at one end, used by painters for holding and mixing colors.	noun	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
palimpsest	a parchment or the like from which writing has been partially or completely erased to make room for another text.	noun	20	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
pall	a cloth, often of velvet, for spreading over a coffin, bier, or tomb.	noun	9	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
pallet	a bed or mattress of straw.	noun	11	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
palliate	to relieve or lessen without curing; mitigate; alleviate.	verb (used with object)	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
pallid	pale; faint or deficient in color; wan	adjective	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
palm	the part of the inner surface of the hand that extends from the wrist to the bases of the fingers.	noun	11	3-All English speakers likely know this word
palpable	readily or plainly seen, heard, perceived, etc.; obvious; evident	adjective	19	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
palpitate	to pulsate with unusual rapidity from exertion, emotion, disease, etc.; flutter	verb (used without object)	16	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
paltry	ridiculously or insultingly small	adjective	12	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
pan	a broad, shallow container of metal, usually having sides flaring outward toward the top, used in various forms for frying, baking, washing, etc.	noun	7	3-All English speakers likely know this word
panacea	a remedy for all disease or ills; cure-all.	noun	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
panache	a grand or flamboyant manner; verve; style; flair	noun	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
pandemic	(of a disease) prevalent throughout an entire country, continent, or the whole world; epidemic over a large area.	adjective	19	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
pandemonium	wild uproar or unrestrained disorder; tumult or chaos.	noun	24	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
pander	a person who furnishes clients for a prostitute or supplies persons for illicit sexual intercourse; procurer; pimp.	noun	11	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
panegyric	a lofty oration or writing in praise of a person or thing; eulogy.	noun	20	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
pang	a sudden feeling of mental or emotional distress or longing	noun	10	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
panoramic	an unobstructed and wide view of an extensive area in all directions.	noun	19	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
pantomime	the art or technique of conveying emotions, actions, feelings, etc., by gestures without speech.	noun	19	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
papyrus	a tall, aquatic plant, Cyperus papyrus, of the sedge family, native to the Nile valley	noun	16	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
parable	a short allegorical story designed to illustrate or teach some truth, religious principle, or moral lesson.	noun	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
paradigm	Grammar.    a set of forms all of which contain a particular element, especially the set of all inflected forms based on a single stem or theme.    a display in fixed arrangement of such a set, as boy, boy's, boys, boys'.  	noun	17	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
paradox	a statement or proposition that seems self-contradictory or absurd but in reality expresses a possible truth.	noun	18	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
paragon	a model or pattern of excellence or of a particular excellence	noun	13	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
parallel	extending in the same direction, equidistant at all points, and never converging or diverging	adjective	14	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
parallelism	the position or relation of 	noun	20	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
parameter	Mathematics.    a constant or variable term in a function that determines the specific form of the function but not its general nature, as a in f (x) = ax, where a determines only the slope of the line described by f (x).    one of the independent variables in a set of parametric equations.  	noun	15	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
paramount	chief in importance or impact; supreme; preeminent	adjective	17	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
paramour	an illicit lover, especially of a married person.	noun	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
paranoia	Psychiatry. a mental disorder characterized by systematized delusions and the projection of personal conflicts, which are ascribed to the supposed hostility of others, sometimes progressing to disturbances of consciousness and aggressive acts believed to be performed in self-defense or as a mission.	noun	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
paraphernalia	(sometimes used with a singular verb) equipment, apparatus, or furnishing used in or necessary for a particular activity	noun	23	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
paraphrase	a restatement of a text or passage giving the meaning in another form, as for clearness; rewording.	noun	18	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
parasite	an organism that lives on or in an organism of another species, known as the host, from the body of which it obtains nutriment.	noun	11	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
parched	to make extremely, excessively, or completely dry, as heat, sun, and wind do.	verb (used with object)	16	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
parchment	the skin of sheep, goats, etc., prepared for use as a material on which to write.	noun	21	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
pariah	an outcast.	noun	11	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
parish	an ecclesiastical district having its own church and member of the clergy.	noun	11	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
parity	equality, as in amount, status, or character.	noun	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
parlance	a way or manner of speaking; vernacular; idiom	noun	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
parley	a discussion or conference.	noun	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
parochial	of, relating to, or financially supported by one or more church parishes	adjective	18	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
parody	a humorous or satirical imitation of a serious piece of literature or writing	noun	12	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
paroxysm	any sudden, violent outburst; a fit of violent action or emotion	noun	23	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
parquet	a floor composed of short strips or blocks of wood forming a pattern, sometimes with inlays of other woods or other materials.	noun	20	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
parry	to ward off (a thrust, stroke, weapon, etc.), as in fencing; avert.	verb (used with object)	10	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
parsimony	extreme or excessive economy or frugality; stinginess; niggardliness.	noun	18	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
partial	being such in 	adjective	11	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
partiality	the state or character of being 	noun	16	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
partisan	an adherent or supporter of a person, group, party, or cause, especially a person who shows a biased, emotional allegiance.	noun	12	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
partition	a division into or distribution in portions or shares.	noun	13	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
parvenu	a person who has recently or suddenly acquired wealth, importance, position, or the like, but has not yet developed the conventionally appropriate manners, dress, surroundings, etc.	noun	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
passe	the numbers 19 through 36 in roulette.	noun	8	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
passive	not reacting visibly to something that might be expected to produce manifestations of an emotion or feeling.	adjective	14	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
paste	a mixture of flour and water, often with starch or the like, used for causing paper or other material to adhere to something.	noun	8	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
pastiche	a literary, musical, or artistic piece consisting wholly or chiefly of motifs or techniques borrowed from one or more sources.	noun	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
pastoral	having the simplicity, charm, serenity, or other characteristics generally attributed to rural areas	adjective	12	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
pastry	a sweet baked food made of dough, especially the shortened 	noun	11	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
patent	the exclusive right granted by a government to an inventor to manufacture, use, or sell an invention for a certain number of years.	noun	10	11-All English speakers likely know this word
pathetic	causing or evoking pity, sympathetic sadness, sorrow, etc.; pitiful; pitiable	adjective	16	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
pathological	of or relating to 	adjective	24	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
pathos	the quality or power in an actual life experience or in literature, music, speech, or other forms of expression, of evoking a feeling of pity, or of sympathetic and kindly sorrow or compassion.	noun	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
patina	a film or incrustation, usually green, produced by oxidation on the surface of old bronze and often esteemed as being of ornamental value.	noun	10	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
patois	a regional form of a language, especially of French, differing from the standard, literary form of the language.	noun	9	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
patriarch	the male head of a family or tribal line.	noun	17	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
patrician	a person of noble or high rank; aristocrat.	noun	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
patrimony	an estate inherited from one's father or ancestors.	noun	18	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
patronize	to give (a store, restaurant, hotel, etc.) one's regular 	verb (used with object)	22	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
paucity	smallness of quantity; scarcity; scantiness	noun	16	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
pauper	a person without any means of support, especially a destitute person who depends on aid from public welfare funds or charity.	noun	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
peccadillo	a very minor or slight sin or offense; a trifling fault.	noun	22	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
pecuniary	of or relating to money	adjective	19	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
pedagogue	a teacher; schoolteacher.	noun	18	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
pedagogy	the function or work of a teacher; teaching.	noun	18	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
pedant	a person who makes an excessive or inappropriate display of learning.	noun	11	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
pedantic	ostentatious in one's learning.	adjective	16	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
peddle	to carry (small articles, goods, wares, etc.) from place to place for sale at retail; hawk.	verb (used with object)	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
pedestal	an architectural support for a column, statue, vase, or the like.	noun	13	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
pedestrian	a person who goes or travels on foot; walker.	noun	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
pediatrician	a physician who specializes in 	noun	20	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
pedigree	an ancestral line; line of descent; lineage; ancestry.	noun	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
pedigree	an ancestral line; line of descent; lineage; ancestry.	noun	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
peer	a person of the same legal status	noun	7	8-All English speakers likely know this word
peerless	having no equal; matchless; unrivaled.	adjective	12	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
peevish	cross, querulous, or fretful, as from vexation or discontent	adjective	16	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
pejorative	having a disparaging, derogatory, or belittling effect or force	adjective	26	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
pell-mell	in disorderly, headlong haste; in a recklessly hurried manner.	adverb	0	67-Few English speakers likely know this word
pellucid	allowing the maximum passage of light, as glass; translucent.	adjective	18	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
pen	any of various instruments for writing or drawing with ink or a similar substance.	noun	7	3-All English speakers likely know this word
penance	a punishment undergone in token of penitence for sin.	noun	15	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
penchant	a strong inclination, taste, or liking for something	noun	18	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
pendant	a hanging ornament, as an earring or the main piece suspended from a necklace.	noun	13	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
pending	while awaiting; until	preposition	15	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
pendulous	hanging down loosely	adjective	17	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
penetrate	to pierce or pass into or through	verb (used with object)	13	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
penitent	feeling or expressing sorrow for sin or wrongdoing and disposed to atonement and amendment; repentant; contrite.	adjective	13	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
penology	the study of the punishment of crime, in both its deterrent and its reformatory aspects.	noun	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
pensive	dreamily or wistfully thoughtful	adjective	15	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
penumbra	Astronomy.    the partial or imperfect shadow outside the complete shadow of an opaque body, as a planet, where the light from the source of illumination is only partly cut off.      Compare    	noun	19	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
penury	extreme poverty; destitution.	noun	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
peon	(in Spanish America) a farm worker or unskilled laborer; day laborer.	noun	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
perceptive	having or showing keenness of insight, understanding, or intuition	adjective	23	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
percussion	the striking of one body against another with some sharpness; impact; blow.	noun	18	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
perdition	a state of final spiritual ruin; 	noun	14	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
peregrination	travel from one place to another, especially on foot.	noun	20	70-Few English speakers likely know this word
peremptory	leaving no opportunity for denial or refusal; imperative	adjective	21	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
perennial	lasting for an indefinitely long time; enduring	adjective	15	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
perfidious	deliberately faithless; treacherous; deceitful	adjective	18	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
perforate	to make a hole or holes through by boring, punching, piercing, or the like.	verb (used with object)	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
perfunctory	performed merely as a routine duty; hasty and superficial	adjective	24	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
perigee	the point in the orbit of a heavenly body, especially the moon, or of an artificial satellite at which it is nearest to the earth.	noun	12	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
perimeter	the border or outer boundary of a two-dimensional figure.	noun	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
peripatetic	walking or traveling about; itinerant.	adjective	20	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
peripheral	pertaining to, situated in, or constituting the 	adjective	19	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
periphery	the external boundary of any surface or area.	noun	19	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
perjury	the willful giving of false testimony under oath or affirmation, before a competent tribunal, upon a point material to a legal inquiry.	noun	22	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
permeable	capable of being 	adjective	19	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
permissive	habitually or characteristically accepting or tolerant of something, as social behavior or linguistic usage, that others might disapprove or forbid.	adjective	20	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
pernicious	causing insidious harm or ruin; ruinous; injurious; hurtful	adjective	18	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
peroration	a long speech characterized by lofty and often pompous language.	noun	14	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
perpetrate	to commit	verb (used with object)	16	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
perpetual	continuing or enduring forever; everlasting.	adjective	17	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
perpetuate	to make 	verb (used with object)	17	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
perquisite	an incidental payment, benefit, privilege, or advantage over and above regular income, salary, or wages	noun	23	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
persevere	to persist in anything undertaken; maintain a purpose in spite of difficulty, obstacles, or discouragement; continue steadfastly.	verb (used without object)	16	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
persist	to continue steadfastly or firmly in some state, purpose, course of action, or the like, especially in spite of opposition, remonstrance, etc.	verb (used without object)	10	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
personable	of pleasing 	adjective	18	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
personify	to attribute human nature or character to (an inanimate object or an abstraction), as in speech or writing.	verb (used with object)	18	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
perspicacious	having keen mental perception and understanding; discerning	adjective	26	71-Few English speakers likely know this word
perspicuity	clearness or lucidity, as of a statement.	noun	23	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
perspicuous	clearly expressed or presented; lucid.	adjective	22	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
pert	boldly forward in speech or behavior; impertinent; saucy.	adjective	7	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
pertinacious	holding tenaciously to a purpose, course of action, or opinion; resolute.	adjective	20	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
pertinent		adjective	14	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
perturb	to disturb or disquiet greatly in mind; agitate.	verb (used with object)	14	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
peruse	to read through with thoroughness or care	verb (used with object)	10	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
perverse	willfully determined or disposed to go counter to what is expected or desired; contrary.	adjective	15	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
perversion	the act of 	noun	18	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
pervert	to affect with 	verb (used with object)	14	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
pessimism	the tendency to see, anticipate, or emphasize only bad or undesirable outcomes, results, conditions, problems, etc.	noun	18	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
pestilential	producing or tending to produce 	adjective	18	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
pestle	a tool for pounding or grinding substances in a mortar.	noun	10	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
petrify	to convert into stone or a stony substance.	verb (used with object)	15	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
petty	of little or no importance or consequence	adjective	10	9-All English speakers likely know this word
petulant	moved to or showing sudden, impatient irritation, especially over some trifling annoyance	adjective	14	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
phalanx	(in ancient Greece) a group of heavily armed infantry formed in ranks and files close and deep, with shields joined and long spears overlapping.	noun	21	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
pharisaical	of or relating to the Pharisees.	adjective	20	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
pharisee	a member of a Jewish sect that flourished during the 1st century b.c. and 1st century a.d. and that differed from the Sadducees chiefly in its strict observance of religious ceremonies and practices, adherence to oral laws and traditions, and belief in an afterlife and the coming of a Messiah.	noun	13	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
phenomena	a plural of 	noun	19	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
philanderer	(of a man) to make love with a woman one cannot or will not marry; carry on flirtations.	verb (used without object)	19	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
philanthropist	a person who practices 	noun	26	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
philatelist	the collecting of stamps and other postal matter as a hobby or an investment.	noun	18	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
philistine	(sometimes initial capital letter) a person who is lacking in or hostile or smugly indifferent to cultural values, intellectual pursuits, aesthetic refinement, etc., or is contentedly commonplace in ideas and tastes.	noun	17	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
philology	the study of literary texts and of written records, the establishment of their authenticity and their original form, and the determination of their meaning.	noun	20	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
phlegmatic	not easily excited to action or display of emotion; apathetic; sluggish.	adjective	24	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
phobia	a persistent, irrational fear of a specific object, activity, or situation that leads to a compelling desire to avoid it.	noun	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
phoenix	(sometimes initial capital letter) a mythical bird of great beauty fabled to live 500 or 600 years in the Arabian wilderness, to burn itself on a funeral pyre, and to rise from its ashes in the freshness of youth and live through another cycle of years	noun	20	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
phylum	Biology. the primary subdivision of a taxonomic kingdom, grouping together all classes of organisms that have the same body plan.	noun	18	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
physiognomy	the face or countenance, especially when considered as an index to the character	noun	26	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
physiological	of or relating to 	adjective	27	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
piebald	having patches of black and white or of other colors; parti-colored.	adjective	15	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
piecemeal	piece by piece; one piece at a time; gradually	adverb	19	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
pied	having patches of two or more colors, as various birds and other animals	adjective	8	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
piety	reverence for God or devout fulfillment of religious obligations	noun	10	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
pigment	a dry insoluble substance, usually pulverized, which when suspended in a liquid vehicle becomes a paint, ink, etc.	noun	16	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
pilfer	to steal, especially in small quantities.	verb (used without object), verb (used with object)	13	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
pillage	to strip ruthlessly of money or goods by open violence, as in war; plunder	verb (used with object)	14	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
pillory	a wooden framework erected on a post, with holes for securing the head and hands, formerly used to expose an offender to public derision.	noun	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
pinch	to squeeze or compress between the finger and thumb, the teeth, the jaws of an instrument, or the like.	verb (used with object)	14	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
pine	any evergreen, coniferous tree of the genus Pinus, having long, needle-shaped leaves, certain species of which yield timber, turpentine, tar, pitch, etc.  Compare  	noun	8	11-All English speakers likely know this word
pinion	Machinery.    a gear with a small number of teeth, especially one engaging with a rack or larger gear.    a shaft or spindle cut with teeth engaging with a gear.  	noun	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
pinnace	a light sailing ship, especially one formerly used in attendance on a larger ship.	noun	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
pinnacle	a lofty peak.	noun	17	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
pious	having or showing a dutiful spirit of reverence for God or an earnest wish to fulfill religious obligations.	adjective	9	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
piquant	agreeably pungent or sharp in taste or flavor; pleasantly biting or tart	adjective	21	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
pique	to affect with sharp irritation and resentment, especially by some wound to pride	verb (used with object)	18	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
piscatorial	of or relating to fishermen or fishing	adjective	18	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
pitfall	a lightly covered and unnoticeable pit prepared as a trap for people or animals.	noun	15	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
pith	Botany. the soft, spongy central cylinder of parenchymatous tissue in the stems of dicotyledonous plants.	noun	9	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
pithy	brief, forceful, and meaningful in expression; full of vigor, substance, or meaning; terse; forcible	adjective	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
pittance	a small amount or share.	noun	15	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
pivotal	of, relating to, or serving as a 	adjective	15	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
placate	to appease or pacify, especially by concessions or conciliatory gestures	verb (used with object)	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
placebo	Medicine/Medical, Pharmacology.    a substance having no pharmacological effect but given merely to satisfy a patient who supposes it to be a medicine.    a substance having no pharmacological effect but administered as a control in testing experimentally or clinically the efficacy of a biologically active preparation.  	noun	17	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
placid	pleasantly calm or peaceful; unruffled; tranquil; serenely quiet or undisturbed	adjective	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
plagiarize	to take and use by 	verb (used with object)	25	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
plaintive	expressing sorrow or melancholy; mournful	adjective	18	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
plait	a braid, especially of hair or straw.	noun	9	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
plane	a flat or level surface.	noun	10	2-All English speakers likely know this word
plaster	a composition, as of lime or gypsum, sand, water, and sometimes hair or other fiber, applied in a pasty form to walls, ceilings, etc., and allowed to harden and dry.	noun	11	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
plasticity	the quality or state of being 	noun	19	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
platitude	a flat, dull, or trite remark, especially one uttered as if it were fresh or profound.	noun	15	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
platonic	of, relating to, or characteristic of 	adjective	16	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
plaudit	an enthusiastic expression of approval	noun	13	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
plausible	having an appearance of truth or reason; seemingly worthy of approval or acceptance; credible; believable	adjective	18	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
plebeian	belonging or pertaining to the common people.	adjective	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
plebiscite	a direct vote of the qualified voters of a state in regard to some important public question.	noun	20	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
plenary	full; complete; entire; absolute; unqualified	adjective	14	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
plenitude	fullness or adequacy in quantity, measure, or degree; abundance	noun	16	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
plethora	overabundance; excess	noun	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
pliable	easily bent; flexible; supple	adjective	15	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
pliant	bending readily; flexible; supple; adaptable	adjective	11	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
plight	a condition, state, or situation, especially an unfavorable or unfortunate one	noun	14	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
ploy	a maneuver or stratagem, as in conversation, to gain the advantage.	noun	10	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
pluck	to pull off or out from the place of growth, as fruit, flowers, feathers, etc.	verb (used with object)	17	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
plumage	the entire feathery covering of a bird.	noun	17	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
plumb	a small mass of lead or other heavy material, as that suspended by a line and used to measure the depth of water or to ascertain a vertical line.  Compare  	noun	16	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
plumber	a person who installs and repairs piping, fixtures, appliances, and appurtenances in connection with the water supply, drainage systems, etc., both in and out of buildings.	noun	18	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
plummet	Also called 	noun	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
plump	well filled out or rounded in form; somewhat fleshy or fat.	adjective	16	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
plutocracy	the rule or power of wealth or of the wealthy.	noun	23	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
podiatrist	a person qualified to diagnose and treat foot disorders.	noun	14	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
podium	a small platform for the conductor of an orchestra, for a public speaker, etc.	noun	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
poignancy	the state or condition of being 	noun	21	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
poise	a state of balance or equilibrium, as from equality or equal distribution of weight; 	noun	8	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
polar	of or relating to the North or South Pole.	adjective	9	4-All English speakers likely know this word
polarity	Physics.    the property or characteristic that produces unequal physical effects at different points in a body or system, as a magnet or storage battery.    the positive or negative state in which a body reacts to a magnetic, electric, or other field.  	noun	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
polarize	to cause 	verb (used with object)	21	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
polemic	a controversial argument, as one against some opinion, doctrine, etc.	noun	17	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
polemical	a controversial argument, as one against some opinion, doctrine, etc.	noun	20	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
politic	shrewd or prudent in practical matters; tactful; diplomatic.	adjective	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
polity	a particular form or system of government	noun	12	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
polygamist	a person who practices or favors 	noun	21	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
polyglot	able to speak or write several languages; multilingual.	adjective	17	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
pomposity	the quality of being 	noun	20	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
ponderous	of great weight; heavy; massive.	adjective	15	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
pontifical	of, relating to, or characteristic of a 	adjective	21	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
pore	to read or study with steady attention or application	verb (used without object)	7	9-All English speakers likely know this word
porous	full of 	adjective	10	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
porridge	a food made of oatmeal, or some other meal or cereal, boiled to a thick consistency in water or milk.	noun	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
portend	to indicate in advance; to foreshadow or presage, as an omen does	verb (used with object)	12	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
portly	rather heavy or fat; stout; corpulent.	adjective	12	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
pose	to assume a particular attitude or stance, especially with the hope of impressing others	verb (used without object)	7	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
poseur	a person who attempts to impress others by assuming or affecting a manner, degree of elegance, sentiment, etc., other than his or her true one.	noun	10	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
posterity	succeeding or future generations collectively	noun	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
posthumous	arising, occurring, or continuing after one's death	adjective	20	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
postmortem	of, relating to, or occurring in the time following death.	adjective	19	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
postulate	to ask, demand, or claim.	verb (used with object)	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
posture	the relative disposition of the parts of something.	noun	11	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
potable	fit or suitable for drinking	adjective	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
potent	powerful; mighty	adjective	10	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
potentate	a person who possesses great power, as a sovereign, monarch, or ruler.	noun	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
potential	possible, as opposed to actual	adjective	14	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
potion	a drink or draft, especially one having or reputed to have medicinal, poisonous, or magical powers	noun	10	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
potpourri	a mixture of dried petals of roses or other flowers with spices, kept in a jar for their fragrance.	noun	16	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
poultice	a soft, moist mass of cloth, bread, meal, herbs, etc., applied hot as a medicament to the body.	noun	16	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
practicable	capable of being done, effected, or put into 	adjective	24	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
practical	of or relating to 	adjective	19	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
pragmatic	of or relating to a practical point of view or practical considerations.	adjective	20	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
pragmatist	a person who is oriented toward the success or failure of a particular line of action, thought, etc.; a practical person.	noun	18	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
prance	to spring from the hind legs; to move by springing, as a horse.	verb (used without object)	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
prank	a trick of an amusing, playful, or sometimes malicious nature.	noun	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
prate	to talk excessively and pointlessly; babble	verb (used without object)	8	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
prattle	to talk in a foolish or simple-minded way; chatter; babble.	verb (used without object)	11	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
preamble	an introductory statement; preface; introduction.  Synonyms	noun	18	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
precarious	dependent on circumstances beyond one's control; uncertain; unstable; insecure	adjective	17	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
precedent	Law. a legal decision or form of proceeding serving as an authoritative rule or pattern in future similar or analogous cases.	noun	17	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
precedent	Law. a legal decision or form of proceeding serving as an authoritative rule or pattern in future similar or analogous cases.	noun	17	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
precept	a commandment or direction given as a rule of action or conduct.	noun	16	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
precinct	a district, as of a city, marked out for governmental or administrative purposes, or for police protection.	noun	18	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
precipice	a cliff with a vertical, nearly vertical, or overhanging face.	noun	21	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
precipitant	falling headlong.	adjective	21	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
precipitate	to hasten the occurrence of; bring about prematurely, hastily, or suddenly	verb (used with object)	20	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
precipitous	of the nature of or characterized by 	adjective	21	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
precis	a concise summary.	noun	12	69-Few English speakers likely know this word
precise	definitely or strictly stated, defined, or fixed	adjective	13	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
preclude	to prevent the presence, existence, or occurrence of; make impossible	verb (used with object)	17	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
precocious	unusually advanced or mature in development, especially mental development	adjective	20	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
precursor	a person or thing that precedes, as in a job, a method, etc.; predecessor.	noun	16	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
predator	Zoology. any organism that exists by 	noun	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
predecessor	a person who 	noun	18	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
predetermine	to settle or decide in advance	verb (used with object)	20	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
predicament	an unpleasantly difficult, perplexing, or dangerous situation.	noun	22	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
predilection	a tendency to think favorably of something in particular; partiality; preference	noun	21	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
predispose	to give an inclination or tendency to beforehand; make susceptible	verb (used with object)	17	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
preeminent	eminent above or before others; superior; surpassing	adjective	18	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
preempt	to occupy (land) in order to establish a prior right to buy.	verb (used with object)	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
preen	(of animals, especially birds) to trim or dress (feathers, fur, etc.) with the beak or tongue	verb (used with object)	9	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
prefatory	of, relating to, or of the nature of a 	adjective	17	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
prefigure	to show or represent beforehand by a figure or type; foreshadow.	verb (used with object)	18	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
prehensile	adapted for seizing, grasping, or taking hold of something	adjective	17	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
prelate	an ecclesiastic of a high order, as an archbishop, bishop, etc.; a church dignitary.	noun	11	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
prelude	a preliminary to an action, event, condition, or work of broader scope and higher importance.	noun	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
premeditate	to meditate, consider, or plan beforehand	verb (used with object)	18	69-Few English speakers likely know this word
premise	Also, premiss. Logic. a proposition supporting or helping to support a conclusion.	noun	13	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
premonition	a feeling of anticipation of or anxiety over a future event; presentiment	noun	19	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
premonitory	giving premonition; serving to warn beforehand.	adjective	20	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
preponderance	the fact or quality of being 	noun	25	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
prepossessing	that impresses favorably; engaging or attractive	adjective	22	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
preposterous	completely contrary to nature, reason, or common sense; absurd; senseless; utterly foolish	adjective	19	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
prerogative	an exclusive right, privilege, etc., exercised by virtue of rank, office, or the like	noun	20	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
presage	a presentiment or foreboding.	noun	12	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
prescience	knowledge of things before they exist or happen; foreknowledge; foresight.	noun	20	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
presentiment	a feeling or impression that something is about to happen, especially something evil; foreboding.	noun	20	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
prestige	reputation or influence arising from success, achievement, rank, or other favorable attributes.	noun	13	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
presume	to take for granted, assume, or suppose	verb (used with object)	14	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
presumptuous	full of, characterized by, or showing 	adjective	24	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
pretend	to cause or attempt to cause (what is not so) to seem so	verb (used with object)	12	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
pretension	the laying of a claim to something.	noun	15	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
pretentious	characterized by assumption of dignity or importance, especially when exaggerated or undeserved	adjective	16	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
preternatural	out of the ordinary course of nature; exceptional or abnormal	adjective	19	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
pretext	something that is put forward to conceal a true purpose or object; an ostensible reason; excuse	noun	17	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
prevail	to be widespread or current; exist everywhere or generally	verb (used without object)	15	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
prevalent	widespread; of wide extent or occurrence; in general use or acceptance.	adjective	18	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
prevaricate	to speak falsely or misleadingly; deliberately misstate or create an incorrect impression; lie.	verb (used without object)	21	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
prey	an animal hunted or seized for food, especially by a carnivorous animal.	noun	9	6-All English speakers likely know this word
prim	formally precise or proper, as persons or behavior; stiffly neat.	adjective	10	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
primal	first; original; primeval	adjective	13	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
primary	first or highest in rank or importance; chief; principal	adjective	15	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
primate	Ecclesiastical. an archbishop or bishop ranking first among the bishops of a province or country.	noun	13	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
prime	of the first importance; demanding the fullest consideration	adjective	11	4-All English speakers likely know this word
primogeniture	the state or fact of being the firstborn of children of the same parents.	noun	23	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
primordial	constituting a beginning; giving origin to something derived or developed; original; elementary	adjective	18	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
primp	to dress or adorn with care.	verb (used with object)	14	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
pristine	having its original purity; uncorrupted or unsullied.	adjective	12	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
privation	lack of the usual comforts or necessaries of life	noun	17	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
privy	participating in the knowledge of something private or secret (usually followed by to)	adjective	14	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
prize	a reward for victory or superiority, as in a contest or competition.	noun	17	6-All English speakers likely know this word
probe	to search into or examine thoroughly; question closely	verb (used with object)	11	11-All English speakers likely know this word
probity	integrity and uprightness; honesty.	noun	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
problematic	of the nature of a 	adjective	24	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
proclivity	natural or habitual inclination or tendency; propensity; predisposition	noun	23	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
procrastinate	to defer action; delay	verb (used without object)	20	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
procure	to obtain or get by care, effort, or the use of special means	verb (used with object)	14	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
prod	to poke or jab with or as if with something pointed	verb (used with object)	8	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
prodigal	wastefully or recklessly extravagant	adjective	15	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
prodigious	extraordinary in size, amount, extent, degree, force, etc.	adjective	17	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
prodigy	a person, especially a child or young person, having extraordinary talent or ability	noun	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
profane	characterized by irreverence or contempt for God or sacred principles or things; irreligious.	adjective	14	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
profligate	utterly and shamelessly immoral or dissipated; thoroughly dissolute.	adjective	19	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
profound	penetrating or entering deeply into subjects of thought or knowledge; having deep insight or understanding	adjective	17	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
profusion	abundance; abundant quantity.	noun	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
progenitor	a biologically related ancestor	noun	16	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
progeny	a descendant or offspring, as a child, plant, or animal.	noun	15	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
prognosis	Medicine/Medical. a forecasting of the probable course and outcome of a disease, especially of the chances of recovery.	noun	15	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
prognosticate	to forecast or predict (something future) from present indications or signs; prophesy.	verb (used with object)	22	67-Few English speakers likely know this word
prohibitive	serving or tending to 	adjective	23	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
projectile	an object fired from a gun with an explosive propelling charge, such as a bullet, shell, rocket, or grenade.	noun	26	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
proletarian	pertaining or belonging to the 	adjective	16	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
proliferate	to grow or produce by multiplication of parts, as in budding or cell division, or by procreation.	verb (used without object), verb (used with object)	18	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
prolific	producing offspring, young, fruit, etc., abundantly; highly fruitful	adjective	18	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
prolixity	extended to great, unnecessary, or tedious length; long and wordy.	adjective	22	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
prologue	a preliminary discourse; a preface or introductory part of a discourse, poem, or novel.	noun	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
prolong	to lengthen out in time; extend the duration of; cause to continue longer	verb (used with object)	14	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
prominent	standing out so as to be seen easily; conspicuous; particularly noticeable	adjective	17	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
promiscuous	characterized by or involving indiscriminate mingling or association, especially having sexual relations with a number of partners on a casual basis.	adjective	22	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
promontory	a high point of land or rock projecting into the sea or other water beyond the line of coast; a headland.	noun	19	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
promote	to help or encourage to exist or flourish; further	verb (used with object)	13	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
prompt	done, performed, delivered, etc., at once or without delay	adjective	15	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
promulgate	to make known by open declaration; publish; proclaim formally or put into operation (a law, decree of a court, etc.).	verb (used with object)	20	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
prone	having a natural inclination or tendency to something; disposed; liable	adjective	9	7-All English speakers likely know this word
prong	one of the pointed tines of a fork.	noun	11	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
pronounced	strongly marked	adjective	20	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
prop	to support, or prevent from falling, with or as if with a prop (often followed by up)	verb (used with object)	10	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
propagate	to cause (an organism) to multiply by any process of natural reproduction from the parent stock.	verb (used with object)	17	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
propellant	a 	noun	19	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
propensity	a natural inclination or tendency	noun	19	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
prophetic	of or relating to a 	adjective	20	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
prophylactic	defending or protecting from disease or infection, as a drug.	adjective	29	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
propinquity	nearness in place; proximity.	noun	30	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
propitiate	to make favorably inclined; appease; conciliate.	verb (used with object)	16	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
propitious	presenting favorable conditions; favorable	adjective	17	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
proponent	a person who puts forward a proposition or proposal.	noun	17	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
propound	to put forward or offer for consideration, acceptance, or adoption; set forth; propose	verb (used with object)	17	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
propriety	conformity to established standards of good or proper behavior or manners.	noun	17	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
propulsive	the act or process of 	noun	22	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
prosaic	commonplace or dull; matter-of-fact or unimaginative	adjective	13	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
proscenium	Also called proscenium arch. the arch that separates a stage from the auditorium.  Abbreviation	noun	21	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
proscribe	to denounce or condemn (a thing) as dangerous or harmful; prohibit.	verb (used with object)	18	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
proselytize	to convert or attempt to convert as a 	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	26	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
prosody	the science or study of poetic meters and versification.	noun	13	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
prosper	to be successful or fortunate, especially in financial respects; thrive; flourish.	verb (used without object)	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
prosperity	a successful, flourishing, or thriving condition, especially in financial respects; good fortune.	noun	18	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
prosperous	having or characterized by financial success or good fortune; flourishing; successful	adjective	17	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
prostrate	to cast (oneself) face down on the ground in humility, submission, or adoration.	verb (used with object)	12	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
protean	readily assuming different forms or characters; extremely variable.	adjective	11	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
protege	a person under the patronage, protection, or care of someone interested in his or her career or welfare.	noun	12	68-Few English speakers likely know this word
protocol	the customs and regulations dealing with diplomatic formality, precedence, and etiquette.	noun	15	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
prototype	the original or model on which something is based or formed.	noun	17	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
protract	to draw out or lengthen, especially in time; extend the duration of; prolong.	verb (used with object)	14	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
protrude	to project.	verb (used without object)	13	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
protuberance	the condition, state, or quality of being 	noun	23	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
provenance	place or source of origin	noun	22	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
provender	dry food, as hay or oats, for livestock or other domestic animals; fodder.	noun	18	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
proverb	a short popular saying, usually of unknown and ancient origin, that expresses effectively some commonplace truth or useful thought; adage; saw.	noun	17	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
providence	(often initial capital letter) the foreseeing care and guidance of God or nature over the creatures of the earth.	noun	22	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
provident	having or showing foresight; 	adjective	18	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
provincial	belonging or peculiar to some particular 	adjective	22	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
provision	a clause in a legal instrument, a law, etc., providing for a particular matter; stipulation; proviso.	noun	17	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
provisional		adjective	20	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
proviso	a clause in a statute, contract, or the like, by which a condition is introduced.	noun	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
provocative	tending or serving to 	adjective	25	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
prowess	exceptional valor, bravery, or ability, especially in combat or battle.	noun	13	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
proximity	nearness in place, time, order, occurrence, or relation.	noun	24	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
proxy	the agency, function, or power of a person authorized to act as the deputy or substitute for another.	noun	17	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
prude	a person who is excessively proper or modest in speech, conduct, dress, etc.	noun	10	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
prudent	wise or judicious in practical affairs; sagacious; discreet or circumspect; sober.	adjective	13	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
prune	a variety of plum that dries without spoiling.	noun	10	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
prurient	having, inclined to have, or characterized by lascivious or lustful thoughts, desires, etc.	adjective	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
pry	to inquire impertinently or unnecessarily into something	verb (used without object)	8	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
pseudonym	a fictitious name used by an author to conceal his or her identity; pen name.  Compare  	noun	20	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
psyche		verb (used with object)	16	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
psychiatrist	a physician who practices 	noun	22	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
psychic	of or relating to the human soul or mind; mental (opposed to 	adjective	20	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
psychopathic	of, relating to, or affected with 	adjective	30	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
psychosis	a mental disorder characterized by symptoms, such as delusions or hallucinations, that indicate impaired contact with reality.	noun	19	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
psychosomatic	of or relating to a physical disorder that is caused by or notably influenced by emotional factors.	adjective	29	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
pterodactyl	any of a number of genera of flying reptiles of the extinct order Pterosauria, from the Jurassic and Cretaceous periods, having a highly reduced tail and teeth and a birdlike beak.	noun	21	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
pucker	to draw or gather into wrinkles or irregular folds, as material or a part of the face; constrict	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	17	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
pudding	a thick, soft dessert, typically containing flour or some other thickener, milk, eggs, a flavoring, and sweetener	noun	16	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
puerile	of or relating to a child or to childhood.	adjective	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
pugilist	a person who fights with the fists; a boxer, usually a professional.	noun	15	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
pugnacity	inclined to quarrel or fight readily; quarrelsome; belligerent; combative.	adjective	21	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
puissant	powerful; mighty; potent.	adjective	13	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
pulchritude	physical beauty; comeliness.	noun	23	72-Few English speakers likely know this word
pulmonary	of or relating to the lungs.	adjective	20	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
pulpit	a platform or raised structure in a church, from which the sermon is delivered or the service is conducted.	noun	14	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
pulsate	to expand and contract rhythmically, as the heart; beat; throb.	verb (used without object)	12	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
pulse	the regular throbbing of the arteries, caused by the successive contractions of the heart, especially as may be felt at an artery, as at the wrist.	noun	10	4-All English speakers likely know this word
pulverize	to reduce to dust or powder, as by pounding or grinding.	verb (used with object)	27	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
pummel	to beat or thrash with or as if with the fists.	verb (used with object)	17	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
punctilious	extremely attentive to 	adjective	21	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
pundit	a learned person, expert, or authority.	noun	12	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
pungent	sharply affecting the organs of taste or smell, as if by a penetrating power; biting; acrid.	adjective	15	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
punitive	serving for, concerned with, or inflicting punishment	adjective	17	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
puny	of less than normal size and strength; weak.	adjective	11	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
purchase	to acquire by the payment of money or its equivalent; buy.	verb (used with object)	17	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
purgatory	(in the belief of Roman Catholics and others) a condition or place in which the souls of those dying penitent are purified from venial sins, or undergo the temporal punishment that, after the guilt of mortal sin has been remitted, still remains to be endured by the sinner.	noun	17	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
purge	to rid of whatever is impure or undesirable; cleanse; purify.	verb (used with object)	11	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
purport	to present, especially deliberately, the appearance of being; profess or claim, often falsely	verb (used with object)	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
purported	reputed or claimed; alleged	adjective	17	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
purse	a woman's handbag or pocketbook.	noun	9	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
purveyor	a person who 	noun	18	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
pushy	obnoxiously forward or self-assertive.	adjective	13	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
pusillanimous	lacking courage or resolution; cowardly; faint-hearted; timid.	adjective	24	67-Few English speakers likely know this word
putative	commonly regarded as such; reputed; supposed	adjective	16	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
putrefy	to render 	verb (used with object)	16	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
putrescent	becoming putrid; undergoing putrefaction.	adjective	18	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
putrid	in a state of foul decay or decomposition, as animal or vegetable matter; rotten.	adjective	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
puzzle	a toy, problem, or other contrivance designed to amuse by presenting difficulties to be solved by ingenuity or patient effort.	noun	29	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
pyromaniac	a compulsion to set things on fire.	noun	22	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
quack	the harsh, throaty cry of a duck or any similar sound.	noun	22	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
quadruped		adjective	25	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
quaff	to drink a beverage, especially an intoxicating one, copiously and with hearty enjoyment.	verb (used without object)	21	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
quagmire	an area of miry or boggy ground whose surface yields under the tread; a bog.	noun	23	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
quail	a small, migratory, gallinaceous game bird, Coturnix coturnix, of the Old World.	noun	16	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
quaint	having an old-fashioned attractiveness or charm; oddly picturesque	adjective	17	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
qualified	having the qualities, accomplishments, etc., that fit a person for some function, office, or the like.	adjective	24	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
qualify	to provide with proper or necessary skills, knowledge, credentials, etc.; make competent	verb (used with object)	23	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
qualms	an uneasy feeling or pang of conscience as to conduct; compunction	noun	20	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
quandary	a state of perplexity or uncertainty, especially as to what to do; dilemma.	noun	22	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
quarantine	a strict isolation imposed to prevent the spread of disease.	noun	22	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
quarry	an excavation or pit, usually open to the air, from which building stone, slate, or the like, is obtained by cutting, blasting, etc.	noun	18	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
quarry	an excavation or pit, usually open to the air, from which building stone, slate, or the like, is obtained by cutting, blasting, etc.	noun	18	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
quash	to put down or suppress completely; quell; subdue	verb (used with object)	17	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
quay	a landing place, especially one of solid masonry, constructed along the edge of a body of water; wharf.	noun	16	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
queasy	inclined to or feeling nausea, as the stomach, a person, etc.; nauseous; nauseated.	adjective	18	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
queer	strange or odd from a conventional viewpoint; unusually different; singular	adjective	15	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
quell	to suppress; put an end to; extinguish	verb (used with object)	17	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
quench	to slake, satisfy, or allay (thirst, desires, passion, etc.).	verb (used with object)	22	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
querulous	full of complaints; complaining.	adjective	22	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
query	a question; an inquiry.	noun	17	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
queue	a braid of hair worn hanging down behind.	noun	16	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
quibble	an instance of the use of ambiguous, prevaricating, or irrelevant language or arguments to evade a point at issue.	noun	24	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
quicksilver	the metallic element mercury.	noun	33	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
quiescent	being at rest; quiet; still; inactive or motionless	adjective	23	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
quietude	the state of being quiet; tranquillity; calmness; stillness; quiet.	noun	20	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
quintessence	the pure and concentrated essence of a substance.	noun	27	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
quip	a clever or witty remark or comment.	noun	17	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
quirk	a peculiarity of action, behavior, or personality; mannerism	noun	19	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
quisling	a person who betrays his or her own country by aiding an invading enemy, often serving later in a puppet government; fifth columnist.	noun	22	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
quiver	to shake with a slight but rapid motion; vibrate tremulously; tremble.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	20	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
quiver	to shake with a slight but rapid motion; vibrate tremulously; tremble.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	20	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
quixotic	(sometimes initial capital letter) resembling or befitting Don Quixote.	adjective	28	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
quizzical	odd, queer, or comical.	adjective	41	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
quorum	the number of members of a group or organization required to be present to transact business legally, usually a majority.	noun	20	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
quotidian	daily	adjective	21	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
rabble	a disorderly crowd; mob.	noun	13	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
rabid	irrationally extreme in opinion or practice	adjective	9	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
rabies	an infectious disease of dogs, cats, and other animals, transmitted to humans by the bite of an infected animal and usually fatal if prophylactic treatment is not administered	noun	9	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
raconteur	a person who is skilled in relating stories and anecdotes interestingly.	noun	14	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
raffle	a form of lottery in which a number of persons buy one or more chances to win a prize.	noun	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
rag	a worthless piece of cloth, especially one that is torn or worn.	noun	5	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
ragamuffin	a ragged, disreputable person; tatterdemalion.	noun	23	67-Few English speakers likely know this word
rail	a bar of wood or metal fixed horizontally for any of various purposes, as for a support, barrier, fence, or 	noun	5	3-All English speakers likely know this word
raiment	clothing; apparel; attire.	noun	11	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
rake	an agricultural implement with teeth or tines for gathering cut grass, hay, or the like or for smoothing the surface of the ground.	noun	8	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
rakish	like a 	adjective	12	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
rally	to bring into order again; gather and organize or inspire anew	verb (used with object)	9	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
ram	a male sheep.	noun	6	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
ramble	to wander around in a leisurely, aimless manner	verb (used without object)	13	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
ramification	the act or process of ramifying.	noun	22	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
ramify	to divide or spread out into branches or branchlike parts; extend into subdivisions.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
ramp	a sloping surface connecting two levels; incline.	noun	10	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
rampant	violent in action or spirit; raging; furious	adjective	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
rampart	Fortification.    a broad elevation or mound of earth raised as a fortification around a place and usually capped with a stone or earth parapet.    such an elevation together with the parapet.  	noun	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
ramshackle	loosely made or held together; rickety; shaky	adjective	23	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
rancid	having a rank, unpleasant, stale smell or taste, as through decomposition, especially of fats or oils	adjective	11	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
rancor	bitter, rankling resentment or ill will; hatred; malice.	noun	10	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
random	proceeding, made, or occurring without definite aim, reason, or pattern	adjective	11	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
rank	a number of persons forming a separate class in a social hierarchy or in any graded body.	noun	9	4-All English speakers likely know this word
rankle	(of unpleasant feelings, experiences, etc.) to continue to cause keen irritation or bitter resentment within the mind; fester; be painful.	verb (used without object)	12	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
ransack	to search thoroughly or vigorously through (a house, receptacle, etc.)	verb (used with object)	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
rant	to speak or declaim extravagantly or violently; talk in a wild or vehement way; rave	verb (used without object)	5	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
rapacious	given to seizing for plunder or the satisfaction of greed.	adjective	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
rapport	relation; connection, especially harmonious or sympathetic relation	noun	13	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
rapt	deeply engrossed or absorbed	adjective	7	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
rapture	ecstatic joy or delight; joyful ecstasy.	noun	11	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
rare	coming or occurring far apart in time; unusual; uncommon	adjective	4	11-All English speakers likely know this word
rarefied	extremely high or elevated; lofty; exalted	adjective	12	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
rasp	to scrape or abrade with a rough instrument.	verb (used with object)	7	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
raspy	harsh; grating; 	adjective	10	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
ratify	to confirm by expressing consent, approval, or formal sanction	verb (used with object)	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
ratiocination	the process of logical reasoning.	noun	18	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
ration	a fixed allowance of provisions or food, especially for soldiers or sailors or for civilians during a shortage	noun	7	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
rational	agreeable to reason; reasonable; sensible	adjective	10	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
rationale	the fundamental reason or reasons serving to account for something.	noun	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
rationalize	to ascribe (one's acts, opinions, etc.) to causes that superficially seem reasonable and valid but that actually are unrelated to the true, possibly unconscious and often less creditable or agreeable causes.	verb (used with object)	22	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
raucous	harsh; strident; grating	adjective	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
ravage	to work havoc upon; damage or mar by ravages	verb (used with object)	12	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
rave	to talk wildly, as in delirium.	verb (used without object)	8	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
ravel	to disentangle or 	verb (used with object)	10	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
ravenous	extremely hungry; famished; voracious	adjective	14	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
ravine	a narrow steep-sided valley commonly eroded by running water.	noun	11	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
raze	to tear down; demolish; level to the ground	verb (used with object)	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
reactionary	of, pertaining to, marked by, or favoring 	adjective	17	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
realm	a royal domain; kingdom	noun	9	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
reaper	a machine for cutting standing grain; 	noun	9	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
rebate	a return of part of the original payment for some service or merchandise; partial refund.	noun	9	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
rebuff	a blunt or abrupt rejection, as of a person making advances.	noun	16	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
rebuke	to express sharp, stern disapproval of; reprove; reprimand.	verb (used with object)	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
rebus	a representation of a word or phrase by pictures, symbols, etc., that suggest that word or phrase or its syllables	noun	9	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
rebuttal	an act of 	noun	13	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
recalcitrant	resisting authority or control; not obedient or compliant; refractory.	adjective	20	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
recant	to withdraw or disavow (a statement, opinion, etc.), especially formally; retract.	verb (used with object)	10	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
recapitulate	to review by a brief summary, as at the end of a speech or discussion; summarize.	verb (used with object)	20	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
recast	to 	verb (used with object)	9	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
receptive	having the quality of 	adjective	19	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
recess	temporary withdrawal or cessation from the usual work or activity.	noun	9	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
recession	the act of 	noun	13	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
recidivism	repeated or habitual relapse, as into crime.	noun	21	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
recipient	a person or thing that 	noun	16	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
reciprocal	given or felt by each toward the other; mutual	adjective	20	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
reciprocate	to give, feel, etc., in return.	verb (used with object)	20	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
recital	a musical entertainment given usually by a single performer or by a performer and one or more accompanists.	noun	11	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
recite	to repeat the words of, as from memory, especially in a formal manner	verb (used with object)	9	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
reckon	to count, compute, or calculate, as in number or amount.	verb (used with object)	14	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
recline	to lean or lie back; rest in a recumbent position.	verb (used without object)	12	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
recluse	a person who lives in seclusion or apart from society, often for religious meditation.	noun	12	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
reconcile	to cause (a person) to accept or be resigned to something not desired	verb (used with object)	17	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
recondite	dealing with very profound, difficult, or abstruse subject matter	adjective	14	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
reconnaissance	the act of 	noun	23	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
recount	to 	verb (used with object)	12	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
recourse	access or resort to a person or thing for help or protection	noun	12	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
recreant	cowardly or craven.	adjective	12	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
recriminate	to bring a countercharge against an accuser.	verb (used without object)	18	66-Few English speakers likely know this word
rectify	to make, put, or set right; remedy; correct	verb (used with object)	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
rectitude	rightness of principle or conduct; moral virtue	noun	14	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
recumbent	lying down; reclining; leaning.	adjective	20	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
recuperate	to recover from sickness or exhaustion; regain health or strength.	verb (used without object)	17	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
recurrent	that 	adjective	14	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
redolent	having a pleasant odor; fragrant.	adjective	11	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
redoubtable	that is to be feared; formidable.	adjective	20	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
redress	to 	verb (used with object)	8	67-Few English speakers likely know this word
reduce	to bring down to a smaller extent, size, amount, number, etc.	verb (used with object)	11	11-All English speakers likely know this word
redundant	characterized by verbosity or unnecessary repetition in expressing ideas; prolix	adjective	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
reek	a strong, unpleasant smell.	noun	8	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
refectory	a dining hall in a religious house, a college, or other institution.	noun	17	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
referendum	the principle or practice of referring measures proposed or passed by a legislative body to the vote of the electorate for approval or rejection.  Compare  	noun	19	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
refraction	Physics. the change of direction of a ray of light, sound, heat, or the like, in passing obliquely from one medium into another in which its wave velocity is different.	noun	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
refractory	hard or impossible to manage; stubbornly disobedient	adjective	18	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
refrain	to abstain from an impulse to say or do something (often followed by from)	verb (used without object)	11	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
refulgent	shining brightly; radiant; gleaming	adjective	17	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
refurbish	to 	verb (used with object)	18	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
refuse	to decline to accept (something offered)	verb (used with object)	10	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
refute	to prove to be false or erroneous, as an opinion or charge.	verb (used with object)	10	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
regal	of or relating to a king; royal	adjective	8	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
regale	to entertain lavishly or agreeably; delight.	verb (used with object)	9	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
regatta	a boat race, as of rowboats, yachts, or other vessels.	noun	9	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
regeneration	act of 	noun	16	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
regent	a person who exercises the ruling power in a kingdom during the minority, absence, or disability of the sovereign.	noun	9	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
regicide	the killing of a king.	noun	14	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
regime	a mode or system of rule or government	noun	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
regimen	Medicine/Medical. a regulated course, as of diet, exercise, or manner of living, intended to preserve or restore health or to attain some result.	noun	13	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
regiment	Military. a unit of ground forces, consisting of two or more battalions or battle groups, a headquarters unit, and certain supporting units.	noun	14	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
rehabilitate	to restore to a condition of good health, ability to work, or the like.	verb (used with object)	18	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
reimburse	to make repayment to for expense or loss incurred	verb (used with object)	16	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
reinstate	to put back or establish again, as in a former position or state	verb (used with object)	10	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
reiterate	to say or do again or repeatedly; repeat, often excessively.	verb (used with object)	9	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
rejoinder	an answer to a reply; response.	noun	20	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
rejuvenate	to make young again; restore to youthful vigor, appearance, etc.	verb (used with object)	25	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
relapse	to fall or slip back into a former state, practice, etc.	verb (used without object)	11	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
relegate	to send or consign to an inferior position, place, or condition	verb (used with object)	11	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
relent	to soften in feeling, temper, or determination; become more mild, compassionate, or forgiving.	verb (used without object)	8	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
relevant	bearing upon or connected with the matter in hand; pertinent	adjective	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
relic	a surviving memorial of something past.	noun	9	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
relinquish	to renounce or surrender (a possession, right, etc.)	verb (used with object)	24	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
relish	liking or enjoyment of the taste of something.	noun	9	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
remediable	capable of being 	adjective	18	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
reminiscence	the act or process of recalling past experiences, events, etc.	noun	23	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
reminiscent	awakening memories of something similar; suggestive (usually followed by of)	adjective	19	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
remiss	negligent, careless, or slow in performing one's duty, business, etc.	adjective	9	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
remission	the act of remitting.	noun	13	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
remit	to transmit or send (money, a check, etc.) to a person or place, usually in payment.	verb (used with object)	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
remittance	the sending of money, checks, etc., to a recipient at a distance.	noun	17	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
remnant	a 	noun	12	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
remonstrate	to say or plead in protest, objection, or disapproval.	verb (used with object)	15	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
remorse	deep and painful regret for wrongdoing; compunction.	noun	10	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
remunerative	affording remuneration; profitable	adjective	21	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
rend	to separate into parts with force or violence	verb (used with object)	6	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
render	to cause to be or become; make	verb (used with object)	8	6-All English speakers likely know this word
rendezvous	an agreement between two or more persons to meet at a certain time and place.	noun	26	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
rendition	the act of 	noun	12	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
renegade	a person who deserts a party or cause for another.	noun	12	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
renege	Cards. to play a card that is not of the suit led when one can follow suit; break a rule of play.	verb (used without object)	9	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
renounce	to give up or put aside voluntarily	verb (used with object)	14	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
renovate	to restore to good condition; make new or as if new again; repair.	verb (used with object)	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
renown	widespread and high repute; fame.	noun	11	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
reparable	capable of being 	adjective	16	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
reparation	the making of amends for wrong or injury done	noun	14	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
repartee	a quick, witty reply.	noun	11	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
repast	a quantity of 	noun	9	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
repeal	to revoke or withdraw formally or officially	verb (used with object)	10	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
repel	to drive or force back (an assailant, invader, etc.).	verb (used with object)	9	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
repellent	causing distaste or aversion; 	adjective	15	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
repercussion	an effect or result, often indirect or remote, of some event or action	noun	20	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
repertoire	the list of dramas, operas, parts, pieces, etc., that a company, actor, singer, or the like, is prepared to perform.	noun	13	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
repine	to be fretfully discontented; fret; complain.	verb (used without object)	10	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
replenish	to make full or complete again, as by supplying what is lacking, used up, etc.	verb (used with object)	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
replete	abundantly supplied or provided; filled (usually followed by with)	adjective	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
replica	a copy or reproduction of a work of art produced by the maker of the original or under his or her supervision.	noun	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
replicate	Also, replicated. folded; bent back on itself.	adjective	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
repose	to 	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	9	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
repository	a receptacle or place where things are deposited, stored, or offered for sale	noun	15	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
reprehensible	deserving of reproof, rebuke, or censure; blameworthy.	adjective	23	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
repress	to 	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	10	66-Few English speakers likely know this word
reprieve	to delay the impending punishment or sentence of (a condemned person).	verb (used with object)	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
reprimand	a severe reproof or rebuke, especially a formal one by a person in authority.	noun	17	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
reprisal	(in warfare) retaliation against an enemy, for injuries received, by the infliction of equal or greater injuries.	noun	12	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
reprise	Usually, reprises. Law. an annual deduction, duty, or payment out of a manor or estate, as an annuity or the like.	noun	10	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
reproach	to find fault with (a person, group, etc.); blame; censure.	verb (used with object)	16	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
reprobate	a depraved, unprincipled, or wicked person	noun	15	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
reprobation	disapproval, condemnation, or censure.	noun	18	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
reprove	to 	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	14	67-Few English speakers likely know this word
repudiate	to reject as having no authority or binding force	verb (used with object)	14	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
repugnance	the state of being 	noun	21	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
repulse	to drive back; 	verb (used with object)	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
repulsion	the act of 	noun	15	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
reputable	held in good 	adjective	17	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
reputed	reported or supposed to be such	adjective	12	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
requiem	Roman Catholic Church.    Also called Requiem Mass. the Mass celebrated for the repose of the souls of the dead.    a celebration of this Mass.    a plainsong setting for this Mass.  	noun	20	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
requisite		adjective	19	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
requisition	the act of 	noun	22	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
requite	to make repayment or return for (service, benefits, etc.).	verb (used with object)	17	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
rescind	to abrogate; annul; revoke; repeal.	verb (used with object)	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
resentment	the feeling of displeasure or indignation at some act, remark, person, etc., regarded as causing injury or insult.	noun	15	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
reserve	to 	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	11	67-Few English speakers likely know this word
residual	pertaining to or constituting a residue or remainder; remaining; leftover.	adjective	11	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
residue	something that remains after a part is removed, disposed of, or used; remainder; rest; remnant.	noun	9	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
resign	to sign again.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	9	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
resignation	the act of 	noun	15	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
resilient	springing back; rebounding.	adjective	11	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
resolution	a formal expression of opinion or intention made, usually after voting, by a formal organization, a legislature, a club, or other group.  Compare  	noun	13	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
resolve	to come to a definite or earnest decision about; determine (to do something)	verb (used with object)	12	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
resonant		adjective	10	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
resort	to 	verb (used with object)	6	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
resound	to 	verb (used without object), verb (used with object)	10	67-Few English speakers likely know this word
resourceful	able to deal skillfully and promptly with new situations, difficulties, etc.	adjective	20	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
respiration	the act of respiring; inhalation and exhalation of air; breathing.	noun	15	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
respite	a delay or cessation for a time, especially of anything distressing or trying; an interval of relief	noun	10	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
resplendent	shining brilliantly; gleaming; splendid	adjective	18	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
responsiveness	the quality or state of being 	noun	23	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
restitution	reparation made by giving an equivalent or compensation for loss, damage, or injury caused; indemnification.	noun	13	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
restive	impatient of control, restraint, or delay, as persons; restless; uneasy.	adjective	11	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
restraint	a 	noun	10	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
resumption	the act of 	noun	18	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
resurge	to rise again, as from desuetude or from virtual extinction.	verb (used without object)	10	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
resurrect	to raise from the dead; bring to life again.	verb (used with object)	13	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
resuscitate	to revive, especially from apparent death or from unconsciousness.	verb (used with object)	15	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
retain	to keep possession of.	verb (used with object)	7	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
retaliate	to return like for like, especially evil for evil	verb (used without object)	10	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
retard	to make slow; delay the development or progress of (an action, process, etc.); hinder or impede.	verb (used with object)	7	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
retentive	tending or serving to 	adjective	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
reticent	disposed to be silent or not to speak freely; reserved.	adjective	12	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
retinue	a body of retainers in attendance upon an important personage; suite.	noun	9	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
retiring	that 	adjective	11	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
retort	to reply to, usually in a sharp or retaliatory way; reply in kind to.	verb (used with object)	6	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
retract	to draw back or in	verb (used with object)	10	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
retrench	to cut down, reduce, or diminish; curtail (expenses).	verb (used with object)	14	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
retribution	requital according to merits or deserts, especially for evil.	noun	16	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
retrieve	to recover or regain	verb (used with object)	12	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
retroactive	operative with respect to past occurrences, as a statute; retrospective	adjective	18	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
retrograde	moving backward; having a backward motion or direction; retiring or retreating.	adjective	13	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
retrospective	directed to the past; contemplative of past situations, events, etc.	adjective	23	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
revelry		noun	14	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
reverberate	to reecho or resound	verb (used without object)	18	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
reverend	(initial capital letter) (used as a title of respect applied or prefixed to the name of a member of the clergy or a religious order)	adjective	14	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
reverent	feeling, exhibiting, or characterized by 	adjective	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
reverie	a state of dreamy meditation or fanciful musing	noun	11	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
revert	to return to a former habit, practice, belief, condition, etc.	verb (used without object)	10	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
revile	to assail with contemptuous or opprobrious language; address or speak of abusively.	verb (used with object)	11	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
revoke	to take back or withdraw; annul, cancel, or reverse; rescind or repeal	verb (used with object)	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
revulsion	a strong feeling of repugnance, distaste, or dislike	noun	16	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
rhapsodize	to talk with extravagant enthusiasm.	verb (used without object)	25	70-Few English speakers likely know this word
rhapsody	Music. an instrumental composition irregular in form and suggestive of improvisation.	noun	16	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
rhetoric	(in writing or speech) the undue use of exaggeration or display; bombast.	noun	13	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
ribald	vulgar or indecent in speech, language, etc.; coarsely mocking, abusive, or irreverent; scurrilous.	adjective	11	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
rickety	likely to fall or collapse; shaky	adjective	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
riddle	a question or statement so framed as to exercise one's ingenuity in answering it or discovering its meaning; conundrum.	noun	9	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
rider	a person who rides a horse or other animal, a bicycle, etc.	noun	6	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
rife	of common or frequent occurrence; prevalent; in widespread existence, activity, or use	adjective	7	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
rift	an opening made by splitting, cleaving, etc.; fissure; cleft; chink.	noun	7	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
rig	Chiefly Nautical.    to put in proper order for working or use.    to fit (a ship, mast, etc.) with the necessary shrouds, stays, etc.    to fit (shrouds, stays, sails, etc.) to the mast, yard, or the like.  	verb (used with object)	5	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
righteous	characterized by uprightness or morality	adjective	14	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
rightful	having a valid or just claim, as to some property or position; legitimate	adjective	17	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
rigid	stiff or unyielding; not pliant or flexible; hard	adjective	8	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
rigor	strictness, severity, or harshness, as in dealing with people.	noun	7	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
rile	to irritate or vex.	verb (used with object)	5	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
rip	to cut or tear apart in a rough or vigorous manner	verb (used with object)	6	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
rivet	a metal pin for passing through holes in two or more plates or pieces to hold them together, usually made with a head at one end, the other end being hammered into a head after insertion.	noun	9	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
riveting	a metal pin for passing through holes in two or more plates or pieces to hold them together, usually made with a head at one end, the other end being hammered into a head after insertion.	noun	15	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
rivulet	a small stream; streamlet; brook.	noun	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
robust	strong and healthy; hardy; vigorous	adjective	10	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
rococo	a style of architecture and decoration, originating in France about 1720, evolved from Baroque types and distinguished by its elegant refinement in using different materials for a delicate overall effect and by its ornament of shellwork, foliage, etc.	noun	12	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
roil	to render (water, wine, etc.) turbid by stirring up sediment.	verb (used with object)	5	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
rolling	the action, motion, or sound of anything that 	noun	12	9-All English speakers likely know this word
romp	to play or frolic in a lively or boisterous manner.	verb (used without object)	10	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
rooster	the male of domestic fowl and certain game birds; cock.	noun	7	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
roseate	tinged with rose; rosy	adjective	7	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
roster	a list of persons or groups, as of military personnel or units with their turns or periods of duty.	noun	6	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
rostrum	any platform, stage, or the like, for public speaking.	noun	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
rote	routine; a fixed, habitual, or mechanical course of procedure	noun	4	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
rotund	round in shape; rounded	adjective	9	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
rotunda	a round building, especially one with a dome.	noun	10	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
rotundity	the condition or quality of roundness or plumpness, as of an object or person.	noun	14	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
roue	a dissolute and licentious man; rake.	noun	5	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
rousing	exciting; stirring	adjective	11	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
rout	a defeat attended with disorderly flight; dispersal of a defeated force in complete disorder	noun	5	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
rubble	broken bits and pieces of anything, as that which is demolished	noun	14	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
rubric	a title, heading, direction, or the like, in a manuscript, book, statute, etc., written or printed in red or otherwise distinguished from the rest of the text.	noun	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
ruddy	of or having a fresh, healthy red color	adjective	10	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
rudimentary	pertaining to 	adjective	19	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
rue	to feel sorrow over; repent of; regret bitterly	verb (used with object)	4	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
ruffian	a tough, lawless person; roughneck; bully.	noun	15	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
rumble	to make a deep, heavy, somewhat muffled, continuous sound, as thunder.	verb (used without object)	14	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
ruminant	any even-toed, hoofed mammal of the suborder Ruminantia, being comprised of cloven-hoofed, cud-chewing quadrupeds, and including, besides domestic cattle, bison, buffalo, deer, antelopes, giraffes, camels, and chevrotains.	noun	14	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
ruminate	to chew the cud, as a 	verb (used without object)	13	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
rummage	to search thoroughly or actively through (a place, receptacle, etc.), especially by moving around, turning over, or looking through contents.	verb (used with object)	16	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
run-down	fatigued; weary; exhausted.	adjective	5	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
runic	consisting of or set down in 	adjective	10	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
ruse	a trick, stratagem, or artifice.	noun	5	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
rustic	of, relating to, or living in the country, as distinguished from towns or cities; rural.	adjective	10	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
rusticate	to go to the country.	verb (used without object)	13	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
rustle	to make a succession of slight, soft sounds, as of parts rubbing gently one on another, as leaves, silks, or papers.	verb (used without object)	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
ruthless	without pity or compassion; cruel; merciless	adjective	12	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
saboteur	a person who commits or practices sabotage.	noun	12	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
saccharine	of the nature of or resembling that of sugar	adjective	19	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
sacrilegious	pertaining to or involving 	adjective	19	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
sacrosanct	extremely sacred or inviolable	adjective	17	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
sadism	Psychiatry. the condition in which sexual gratification depends on causing pain or degradation to others.  Compare  	noun	10	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
saga	a medieval Icelandic or Norse prose narrative of achievements and events in the history of a personage, family, etc.	noun	6	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
sagacious	having or showing acute mental discernment and keen practical sense; shrewd	adjective	15	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
sage	a profoundly wise person; a person famed for wisdom.	noun	6	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
salacious	lustful or lecherous.	adjective	14	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
salient	prominent or conspicuous	adjective	9	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
saline	of, containing, or resembling common table salt; salty or saltlike	adjective	8	7-All English speakers likely know this word
sallow	of a sickly, yellowish color	adjective	11	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
salubrious	favorable to or promoting health; healthful	adjective	16	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
salutary	favorable to or promoting health; healthful.	adjective	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
salvage	the act of 	noun	14	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
sanctimonious	making a hypocritical show of religious devotion, piety, righteousness, etc.	adjective	22	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
sanction	authoritative permission or approval, as for an action.	noun	13	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
sanctuary	a sacred or holy place.	noun	16	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
sanguinary	full of or characterized by bloodshed; bloody	adjective	17	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
sanguine	cheerfully optimistic, hopeful, or confident	adjective	13	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
sap	the juice or vital circulating fluid of a plant, especially of a woody plant.	noun	6	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
sarcasm	harsh or bitter derision or irony.	noun	13	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
sardonic	characterized by bitter or scornful derision; mocking; cynical; sneering	adjective	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
sartorial	of or relating to tailors or their trade	adjective	10	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
sate	to satisfy (any appetite or desire) fully.	verb (used with object)	4	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
satellite	Astronomy. a natural body that revolves around a planet; a moon.	noun	11	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
satiate	to supply with anything to excess, so as to disgust or weary; surfeit.	verb (used with object)	7	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
satire	the use of irony, sarcasm, ridicule, or the like, in exposing, denouncing, or deriding vice, folly, etc.	noun	6	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
satirical	of, pertaining to, containing, or characterized by 	adjective	13	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
saturate	to cause (a substance) to unite with the greatest possible amount of another substance, through solution, chemical combination, or the like.	verb (used with object)	9	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
saturnine	sluggish in temperament; gloomy; taciturn.	adjective	12	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
satyr	Classical Mythology. one of a class of woodland deities, attendant on Bacchus, represented as part human, part horse, and sometimes part goat and noted for riotousness and lasciviousness.	noun	7	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
saunter	to walk with a leisurely gait; stroll	verb (used without object)	9	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
savant	a person of profound or extensive learning; learned scholar.	noun	11	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
savor	the quality in a substance that affects the sense of taste or of smell.	noun	9	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
savory	pleasant or agreeable in taste or smell	adjective	12	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
scabbard	a sheath for a sword or the like.	noun	18	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
scad	any carangid fish of the genus Decapterus, inhabiting tropical and subtropical shore waters.	noun	8	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
scaffold	a temporary structure for holding workers and materials during the erection, repair, or decoration of a building.	noun	19	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
scale	Zoology.    one of the thin, flat, horny plates forming the covering of certain animals, as snakes, lizards, and pangolins.    one of the hard, bony or dentinal plates, either flat or denticulate, forming the covering of certain other animals, as fishes.  	noun	9	4-All English speakers likely know this word
scanty	scant in amount, quantity, etc.; barely sufficient.	adjective	12	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
scapegoat	a person or group made to bear the blame for others or to suffer in their place.	noun	17	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
scavenge	to take or gather (something usable) from discarded material.	verb (used with object)	18	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
scenario	an outline of the plot of a dramatic work, giving particulars as to the scenes, characters, situations, etc.	noun	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
schematic	pertaining to or of the nature of a 	adjective	20	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
scheme	a plan, design, or program of action to be followed; project.	noun	14	9-All English speakers likely know this word
schism	division or disunion, especially into mutually opposed parties.	noun	14	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
scintilla	a minute particle; spark; trace	noun	15	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
scintillate	to emit sparks.	verb (used without object)	17	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
scion	a descendant.	noun	9	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
scoff	to speak derisively; mock; jeer (often followed by at)	verb (used without object)	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
scorch	to affect the color, taste, etc., of by 	verb (used with object)	14	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
score	the record of points or strokes made by the competitors in a game or match.	noun	8	6-All English speakers likely know this word
scotch	to put a definite end to; crush; stamp out; foil	verb (used with object)	14	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
scourge	a whip or lash, especially for the infliction of punishment or torture.	noun	13	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
scowl	to draw down or contract the brows in a sullen, displeased, or angry manner.	verb (used without object)	12	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
scrap	a small piece or portion; fragment	noun	11	11-All English speakers likely know this word
scrappy	made up of 	adjective	18	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
scraps	a small piece or portion; fragment	noun	11	11-All English speakers likely know this word
screech	to utter or make a harsh, shrill cry or sound	verb (used without object)	15	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
scrimmage	a rough or vigorous struggle.	noun	20	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
scruple	a moral or ethical consideration or standard that acts as a restraining force or inhibits certain actions.	noun	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
scrupulous	having 	adjective	20	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
scrutinize	to examine in detail with careful or critical attention.	verb (used with object)	24	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
scuffle	to struggle or fight in a rough, confused manner.	verb (used without object)	18	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
scurrilous	grossly or obscenely abusive	adjective	16	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
scurry	to go or move quickly or in haste.	verb (used without object)	12	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
scurvy	Pathology. a disease marked by swollen and bleeding gums, livid spots on the skin, prostration, etc., due to a diet lacking in vitamin C.	noun	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
scuttle	a deep bucket for carrying coal.	noun	12	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
seamy	unpleasant or sordid; low; disagreeable	adjective	10	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
sear	to burn or char the surface of	verb (used with object)	4	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
season	one of the four periods of the year (spring, summer, autumn, and winter), beginning astronomically at an equinox or solstice, but geographically at different dates in different climates.	noun	7	4-All English speakers likely know this word
seasonable	suitable to or characteristic of the 	adjective	15	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
seasonal	pertaining to, dependent on, or accompanying the 	adjective	10	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
seasoned	one of the four periods of the year (spring, summer, autumn, and winter), beginning astronomically at an equinox or solstice, but geographically at different dates in different climates.	noun	10	4-All English speakers likely know this word
secession	an act or instance of 	noun	13	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
seclusion	an act of 	noun	15	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
secrete	to discharge, generate, or release by the process of 	verb (used with object)	10	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
sect	a body of persons adhering to a particular religious faith; a religious denomination.	noun	7	4-All English speakers likely know this word
sectarian	of or relating to 	adjective	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
secular	of or relating to worldly things or to things that are not regarded as religious, spiritual, or sacred; temporal	adjective	12	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
sedate	calm, quiet, or composed; undisturbed by passion or excitement	adjective	7	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
sedentary	characterized by or requiring a sitting posture	adjective	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
sedition	incitement of discontent or rebellion against a government.	noun	10	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
seduce	to lead astray, as from duty, rectitude, or the like; corrupt.	verb (used with object)	11	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
sedulous	diligent in application or attention; persevering; assiduous.	adjective	12	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
seedy	abounding in 	adjective	8	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
seemly	fitting or becoming with respect to propriety or good taste; decent; decorous	adjective	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
seep	to pass, flow, or ooze gradually through a porous substance	verb (used without object)	7	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
seethe	to surge or foam as if boiling.	verb (used without object)	8	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
seine	a fishing net that hangs vertically in the water, having floats at the upper edge and sinkers at the lower.	noun	6	11-All English speakers likely know this word
seismic	pertaining to, of the nature of, or caused by an earthquake or vibration of the earth, whether due to natural or artificial causes.	adjective	13	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
self-indulgence	indulging one's own desires, passions, whims, etc., especially without restraint.	adjective	8	77-Few English speakers likely know this word
self-righteous	confident of one's own righteousness, especially when smugly moralistic and intolerant of the opinions and behavior of others.	adjective	8	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
semblance	outward aspect or appearance.	noun	20	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
seminal	pertaining to, containing, or consisting of semen.	adjective	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
seminary	a special school providing education in theology, religious history, etc., primarily to prepare students for the priesthood, ministry, or rabbinate.	noun	14	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
senility	the state of being 	noun	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
sensitization	the state or process of being sensitized.	noun	24	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
sensual	pertaining to, inclined to, or preoccupied with the gratification of the senses or appetites; carnal; fleshly.	adjective	10	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
sensuous	perceived by or affecting the 	adjective	11	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
sententious	abounding in pithy aphorisms or maxims	adjective	14	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
sentient	having the power of perception by the senses; conscious.	adjective	10	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
sentimental	expressive of or appealing to 	adjective	17	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
sentinel	a person or thing that watches or stands as if watching.	noun	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
septic	pertaining to or of the nature of 	adjective	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
sepulcher	a tomb, grave, or burial place.	noun	19	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
sequester	to remove or withdraw into solitude or retirement; seclude.	verb (used with object)	19	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
sere	dry; withered.	adjective	4	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
serendipity	an aptitude for making desirable discoveries by accident.	noun	18	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
serenity	the state or quality of being 	noun	11	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
serpentine	of, characteristic of, or resembling a 	adjective	15	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
serrated	having a notched edge or sawlike teeth, especially for cutting; 	adjective	9	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
servile	slavishly submissive or obsequious; fawning	adjective	12	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
servitude	slavery or bondage of any kind	noun	15	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
sever	to separate (a part) from the whole, as by cutting or the like.	verb (used with object)	9	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
severity	harshness, sternness, or rigor	noun	14	10-All English speakers likely know this word
sextant	an astronomical instrument used to determine latitude and longitude at sea by measuring angular distances, especially the altitudes of sun, moon, and stars.	noun	15	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
shack	a rough cabin; shanty.	noun	14	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
shackle	a ring or other fastening, as of iron, for securing the wrist, ankle, etc.; fetter.	noun	17	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
shade	the comparative darkness caused by the interception or screening of rays of light from an object, place, or area.	noun	8	8-All English speakers likely know this word
sham	something that is not what it purports to be; a spurious imitation; fraud or hoax.	noun	9	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
shambles	shambles, (used with a singular or plural verb)    a slaughterhouse.    any place of carnage.    any scene of destruction	noun	17	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
Shangri-la	an imaginary paradise on earth, especially a remote and exotic utopia.	noun	0	70-Few English speakers likely know this word
shard	a fragment, especially of broken earthenware.	noun	8	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
shaving	Often, shavings. a very thin piece or slice, especially of wood.	noun	16	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
sheaf	one of the bundles in which cereal plants, as wheat, rye, etc., are bound after reaping.	noun	10	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
shear	to cut (something).	verb (used with object)	7	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
sheathe	to put (a sword, dagger, etc.) into a 	verb (used with object)	11	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
shed	a slight or rude structure built for shelter, storage, etc.	noun	7	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
sheer	transparently thin; diaphanous, as some fabrics	adjective	7	11-All English speakers likely know this word
sherbet	a frozen fruit-flavored mixture, similar to an ice, but with milk, egg white, or gelatin added.	noun	12	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
shift	to put (something) aside and replace it by another or others; change or exchange	verb (used with object)	10	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
shimmer	to shine with or reflect a subdued, tremulous light; gleam faintly.	verb (used without object)	15	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
shirk	to evade (work, duty, responsibility, etc.).	verb (used with object)	11	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
shoddy	of poor quality or inferior workmanship	adjective	12	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
shoot	to hit, wound, damage, kill, or destroy with a missile discharged from a weapon.	verb (used with object)	7	11-All English speakers likely know this word
shove	to move along by force from behind; push.	verb (used with object)	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
shrew	a woman of violent temper and speech; termagant.	noun	10	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
shrewd	astute or sharp in practical matters	adjective	12	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
shudder	to tremble with a sudden convulsive movement, as from horror, fear, or cold.	verb (used without object)	12	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
shuffle	to walk without lifting the feet or with clumsy steps and a shambling gait.	verb (used without object)	17	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
shun	to keep away from (a place, person, object, etc.), from motives of dislike, caution, etc.; take pains to avoid.	verb (used with object)	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
shunt	to shove or turn (someone or something) aside or out of the way.	verb (used with object)	9	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
shyster	a lawyer who uses unprofessional or questionable methods.	noun	11	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
sibling	a brother or sister.	noun	14	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
sibylline	of, resembling, or characteristic of a sibyl; prophetic; oracular.	adjective	17	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
sidereal	determined by or from the stars	adjective	10	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
sidetrack	to move from the main 	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	17	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
significant	important; of consequence.	adjective	21	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
silt	earthy matter, fine sand, or the like carried by moving or running water and deposited as a sediment.	noun	5	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
simian	of or relating to an ape or monkey.	adjective	10	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
simper	to smile in a silly, self-conscious way.	verb (used without object)	12	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
simplistic	characterized by extreme simplism; oversimplified	adjective	20	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
simulate	to create a 	verb (used with object)	13	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
sinecure	an office or position requiring little or no work, especially one yielding profitable returns.	noun	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
sinewy	having strong 	adjective	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
singular	extraordinary; remarkable; exceptional	adjective	13	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
sinister	threatening or portending evil, harm, or trouble; ominous	adjective	9	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
sinuous	having many curves, bends, or turns; winding	adjective	10	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
siren	Classical Mythology. one of several sea nymphs, part woman and part bird, who lure mariners to destruction by their seductive singing.	noun	6	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
skeptic	a person who questions the validity or authenticity of something purporting to be factual.	noun	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
skiff	any of various types of boats small enough for sailing or rowing by one person.	noun	15	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
skim	to take up or remove (floating matter) from the surface of a liquid, as with a spoon or ladle	verb (used with object)	11	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
skimp	to scrimp.	verb (used without object)	15	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
skinflint	a mean, niggardly person; miser.	noun	19	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
skirmish	Military. a fight between small bodies of troops, especially advanced or outlying detachments of opposing armies.	noun	17	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
skittish	apt to start or shy	adjective	14	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
skulduggery	dishonorable proceedings; mean dishonesty or trickery	noun	25	70-Few English speakers likely know this word
skulk	to lie or keep in hiding, as for some evil reason	verb (used without object)	15	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
slack	not tight, taut, firm, or tense; loose	adjective	13	8-All English speakers likely know this word
slacken	to make or become less active, vigorous, intense, etc.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	16	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
slag	Also called 	noun	7	8-All English speakers likely know this word
slake	to allay (thirst, desire, wrath, etc.) by satisfying.	verb (used with object)	10	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
slander	defamation; calumny	noun	10	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
slap	a sharp blow or smack, especially with the open hand or with something flat.	noun	8	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
slapdash	in a hasty, haphazard manner	adverb	15	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
slaughter	the killing or butchering of cattle, sheep, etc., especially for food.	noun	15	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
slavish	of or befitting a 	adjective	14	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
sleazy	contemptibly low, mean, or disreputable	adjective	18	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
sledge	a vehicle of various forms, mounted on runners and often drawn by draft animals, used for traveling or for conveying loads over snow, ice, rough ground, etc.	noun	10	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
sleek	smooth or glossy, as hair, an animal, etc.	adjective	10	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
sleeper	a person or thing that sleeps.	noun	11	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
sleigh	a light vehicle on runners, usually open and generally horse-drawn, used especially for transporting persons over snow or ice.	noun	11	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
sleight	skill; dexterity.	noun	12	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
slew	simple past tense of 	verb	8	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
slick	smooth and glossy; sleek.	adjective	13	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
slight	small in amount, degree, etc.	adjective	11	9-All English speakers likely know this word
slink	to move or go in a furtive, abject manner, as from fear, cowardice, or shame.	verb (used without object)	11	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
slipshod	careless, untidy, or slovenly	adjective	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
slither	to slide down or along a surface, especially unsteadily, from side to side, or with some friction or noise	verb (used without object)	10	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
sloth	habitual disinclination to exertion; indolence; laziness.	noun	8	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
slough	an area of soft, muddy ground; swamp or swamplike region.	noun	12	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
slovenly	untidy or unclean in appearance or habits.	adjective	17	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
sluggard	a person who is habitually inactive or lazy.	noun	15	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
sluggish	indisposed to action or exertion; lacking in energy; lazy; indolent	adjective	16	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
sluice	an artificial channel for conducting water, often fitted with a gate (sluice gate) at the upper end for regulating the flow.	noun	11	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
slur	to pass over lightly or without due mention or consideration (often followed by over)	verb (used with object)	6	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
sly	cunning or wily	adjective	6	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
smart	to be a source of sharp, local, and usually superficial pain, as a wound.	verb (used without object)	8	7-All English speakers likely know this word
smattering	a slight, superficial, or introductory knowledge of something	noun	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
smear	to spread or daub (an oily, greasy, viscous, or wet substance) on or over something	verb (used with object)	8	11-All English speakers likely know this word
smelt	to fuse or melt (ore) in order to separate the metal contained.	verb (used with object)	9	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
smirk	to smile in an affected, smug, or offensively familiar way.	verb (used without object)	12	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
smolder	to burn without flame; undergo slow or suppressed combustion.	verb (used without object)	12	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
smother	to stifle or suffocate, as by smoke or other means of preventing free breathing.	verb (used with object)	12	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
smudge	a dirty mark or smear.	noun	13	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
smug	contentedly confident of one's ability, superiority, or correctness; complacent.	adjective	10	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
sneak	to go in a stealthy or furtive manner; slink; skulk.	verb (used without object)	10	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
snicker	to laugh in a half-suppressed, indecorous or disrespectful manner.	verb (used without object)	15	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
snip	to cut with a small, quick stroke, or a succession of such strokes, with scissors or the like.	verb (used with object)	8	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
snivel	to weep or cry with sniffling.	verb (used without object)	12	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
snub	to treat with disdain or contempt, especially by ignoring.	verb (used with object)	9	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
snuffle	to draw air into the nose for the purpose of smelling something; snuff.	verb (used without object)	16	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
soar	to fly upward, as a bird.	verb (used without object)	4	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
sober	not intoxicated or drunk.	adjective	8	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
sobriety	the state or quality of being 	noun	13	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
sodden	soaked with liquid or moisture; saturated.	adjective	9	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
sojourn	a temporary stay	noun	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
solace	comfort in sorrow, misfortune, or trouble; alleviation of distress or discomfort.	noun	10	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
solder	any of various alloys fused and applied to the joint between metal objects to unite them without heating the objects to the melting point.	noun	8	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
solecism	a nonstandard or ungrammatical usage, as unflammable and they was.	noun	15	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
solemnity	the state or character of being 	noun	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
solicit	to seek for (something) by entreaty, earnest or respectful request, formal application, etc.	verb (used with object)	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
solicitor	a person who 	noun	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
solicitous	anxious or concerned (usually followed by about, for, etc., or a clause)	adjective	15	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
soliloquy	an utterance or discourse by a person who is talking to himself or herself or is disregardful of or oblivious to any hearers present (often used as a device in drama to disclose a character's innermost thoughts)	noun	23	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
solitude	the state of being or living alone; seclusion	noun	11	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
solstice	Astronomy.    either of the two times a year when the sun is at its greatest distance from the celestial equator	noun	12	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
soluble	capable of being dissolved or liquefied	adjective	13	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
solvent	able to pay all just debts.	adjective	13	9-All English speakers likely know this word
somatic	of the body; bodily; physical.	adjective	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
somber	gloomily dark; shadowy; dimly lighted	adjective	12	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
somnambulist		noun	24	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
somnolent	sleepy; drowsy.	adjective	15	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
sonic	of or relating to sound.	adjective	9	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
sonnet	Prosody. a poem, properly expressive of a single, complete thought, idea, or sentiment, of 14 lines, usually in iambic pentameter, with rhymes arranged according to one of certain definite schemes, being in the strict or Italian form divided into a major group of 8 lines (the octave) followed by a minor group of 6 lines (the sestet), and in a common English form into 3 quatrains followed by a couplet.	noun	8	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
sonorous	giving out or capable of giving out a sound, especially a deep, resonant sound, as a thing or place	adjective	10	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
soothsayer	a person who professes to foretell events.	noun	14	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
sophist	(often initial capital letter) Greek History.    any of a class of professional teachers in ancient Greece who gave instruction in various fields, as in general culture, rhetoric, politics, or disputation.    a person belonging to this class at a later period who, while professing to teach skill in reasoning, concerned himself with ingenuity and specious effectiveness rather than soundness of argument.  	noun	12	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
sophisticated	(of a person, ideas, tastes, manners, etc.) altered by education, experience, etc., so as to be worldly-wise; not naive	adjective	22	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
sophistry	a subtle, tricky, superficially plausible, but generally fallacious method of reasoning.	noun	16	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
sophomoric	of or relating to a 	adjective	21	66-Few English speakers likely know this word
soporific	causing or tending to cause sleep.	adjective	18	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
sordid	morally ignoble or base; vile	adjective	8	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
sound	the sensation produced by stimulation of the organs of hearing by vibrations transmitted through the air or other medium.	noun	8	1-All English speakers likely know this word
sour	having an acid taste, resembling that of vinegar, lemon juice, etc.; tart.	adjective	5	6-All English speakers likely know this word
sovereign	a monarch; a king, queen, or other supreme ruler.	noun	16	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
sovereignty	the quality or state of being 	noun	20	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
sow	to scatter (seed) over land, earth, etc., for growth; plant.	verb (used with object)	6	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
spangle	a small, thin, often circular piece of glittering metal or other material, used especially for decorating garments.	noun	14	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
spare	to refrain from harming or destroying; leave uninjured; forbear to punish, hurt, or destroy	verb (used with object)	8	6-All English speakers likely know this word
sparse	thinly scattered or distributed	adjective	9	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
spartan	Also, Spartanic          	adjective	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
spasmodic	pertaining to or of the nature of a spasm; characterized by spasms.	adjective	19	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
spat	a petty quarrel.	noun	7	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
spate	a sudden, almost overwhelming, outpouring	noun	8	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
spatial	of or relating to 	adjective	11	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
spatula	an implement with a broad, flat, usually flexible blade, used for blending foods or removing them from cooking utensils, mixing drugs, spreading plasters and paints, etc.	noun	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
spawn	Zoology. the mass of eggs deposited by fishes, amphibians, mollusks, crustaceans, etc.	noun	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
specious	apparently good or right though lacking real merit; superficially pleasing or plausible	adjective	15	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
speck	a small spot differing in color or substance from that of the surface or material upon which it appears or lies	noun	15	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
spectral	of or relating to a specter; ghostly; phantom.	adjective	15	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
spectrum	Physics.    an array of entities, as light waves or particles, ordered in accordance with the magnitudes of a common physical property, as wavelength or mass	noun	18	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
speechless	temporarily deprived of speech by strong emotion, physical weakness, exhaustion, etc.	adjective	19	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
spendthrift	a person who 	noun	21	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
spin	to make (yarn) by drawing out, twisting, and winding fibers	verb (used with object)	8	9-All English speakers likely know this word
splice	to join together or unite (two ropes or parts of a rope) by the interweaving of strands.	verb (used with object)	13	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
spoilsport	a person whose selfish or unsportsmanlike attitudes or actions spoil the pleasure of others, as in a game or social gathering.	noun	17	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
spontaneity	the state, quality, or fact of being 	noun	18	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
spoof	a mocking imitation of someone or something, usually light and good-humored; lampoon or parody	noun	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
spoonerism	the transposition of initial or other sounds of words, usually by accident, as in a blushing crow for a crushing blow.	noun	17	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
sporadic	(of similar things or occurrences) appearing or happening at irregular intervals in time; occasional	adjective	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
sportive	playful or frolicsome; jesting, jocose, or merry	adjective	15	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
sprightly	animated, vivacious, or gay; lively.	adjective	19	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
sprout	to begin to grow; shoot forth, as a plant from a seed.	verb (used without object)	10	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
spruce	any evergreen, coniferous tree of the genus Picea, of the pine family, having short, angular, needle-shaped leaves attached singly around twigs and bearing hanging cones with persistent scales.	noun	13	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
spry	active; nimble; agile; energetic; brisk.	adjective	9	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
spurious	not genuine, authentic, or true; not from the claimed, pretended, or proper source; counterfeit.	adjective	13	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
spurn	to reject with disdain; scorn.	verb (used with object)	10	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
squabble	to engage in a petty quarrel.	verb (used without object)	25	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
squalor	the condition of being squalid; filth and misery.	noun	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
squander	to spend or use (money, time, etc.) extravagantly or wastefully (often followed by away).	verb (used with object)	20	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
squash	to press into a flat mass or pulp; crush	verb (used with object)	18	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
squat	to sit in a low or crouching position with the legs drawn up closely beneath or in front of the body; sit on one's haunches or heels.	verb (used without object)	15	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
squeamish	fastidious or dainty.	adjective	24	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
squelch	to strike or press with crushing force; crush down; squash.	verb (used with object)	23	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
staccato	shortened and detached when played or sung	adjective	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
stagnant	not flowing or running, as water, air, etc.	adjective	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
staid	of settled or sedate character; not flighty or capricious.	adjective	6	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
stalemate	Chess. a position of the pieces in which a player cannot move any piece except the king and cannot move the king without putting it in check.	noun	13	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
stalwart	strongly and stoutly built; sturdy and robust.	adjective	12	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
stamina	strength of physical constitution; power to endure disease, fatigue, privation, etc.	noun	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
stammer	to speak with involuntary breaks and pauses, or with spasmodic repetitions of syllables or sounds.	verb (used without object)	13	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
stamp	to strike or beat with a forcible, downward thrust of the foot.	verb (used with object)	11	6-All English speakers likely know this word
stampede	a sudden, frenzied rush or headlong flight of a herd of frightened animals, especially cattle or horses.	noun	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
stanch	to stop the flow of (a liquid, especially blood).	verb (used with object)	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
standstill	a state of cessation of movement or action; halt; stop	noun	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
stanza	an arrangement of a certain number of lines, usually four or more, sometimes having a fixed length, meter, or rhyme scheme, forming a division of a poem.	noun	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
stately	majestic; imposing in magnificence, elegance, etc.	adjective	10	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
static	pertaining to or characterized by a fixed or stationary condition.	adjective	9	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
statute	Law.    an enactment made by a legislature and expressed in a formal document.    the document in which such an enactment is expressed.  	noun	8	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
statutory	of, relating to, or of the nature of a 	adjective	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
steadfast	fixed in direction; steadily directed	adjective	13	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
stealth	secret, clandestine, or surreptitious procedure.	noun	10	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
steep	having an almost vertical slope or pitch, or a relatively high gradient, as a hill, an ascent, stairs, etc.	adjective	8	7-All English speakers likely know this word
stellar	of or relating to the stars; consisting of stars.	adjective	9	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
stem	the ascending axis of a plant, whether above or below ground, which ordinarily grows in an opposite direction to the root or descending axis.	noun	7	2-All English speakers likely know this word
stench	an offensive smell or odor; stink.	noun	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
stentorian	very loud or powerful in sound	adjective	12	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
sterile	free from living germs or microorganisms; aseptic	adjective	8	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
stickler	a person who insists on something unyieldingly (usually followed by for)	noun	16	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
stifle	to quell, crush, or end by force	verb (used with object)	10	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
stigma	a mark of disgrace or infamy; a stain or reproach, as on one's reputation.	noun	11	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
stilted	stiffly dignified or formal, as speech or literary style; pompous.	adjective	9	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
stink	to emit a strong offensive smell.	verb (used without object)	10	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
stint	to be frugal; get along on a scanty allowance	verb (used without object)	6	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
stint	to be frugal; get along on a scanty allowance	verb (used without object)	6	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
stipend	a periodic payment, especially a scholarship or fellowship allowance granted to a student.	noun	12	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
stipple	to paint, engrave, or draw by means of dots or small touches.	verb (used with object)	14	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
stipulate	to make an express demand or arrangement as a condition of agreement (often followed by for).	verb (used without object)	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
stock	a supply of goods kept on hand for sale to customers by a merchant, distributor, manufacturer, etc.; inventory.	noun	12	6-All English speakers likely know this word
stockade	Fortification. a defensive barrier consisting of strong posts or timbers fixed upright in the ground.	noun	16	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
stodgy	heavy, dull, or uninteresting; tediously commonplace; boring	adjective	11	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
stoic	of or relating to the school of philosophy founded by Zeno, who taught that people should be free from passion, unmoved by joy or grief, and submit without complaint to unavoidable necessity.	adjective	8	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
stoke	to poke, stir up, and feed (a fire).	verb (used with object)	9	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
stolid	not easily stirred or moved mentally; unemotional; impassive.	adjective	8	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
stoop	to bend the head and shoulders, or the body generally, forward and downward from an erect position	verb (used without object)	8	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
stout	bulky in figure; heavily built; corpulent; thickset; fat	adjective	6	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
straggle	to stray from the road, course, or line of march.	verb (used without object)	13	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
strangle	to kill by squeezing the throat in order to compress the windpipe and prevent the intake of air, as with the hands or a tightly drawn cord.	verb (used with object)	12	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
stratagem	a plan, scheme, or trick for surprising or deceiving an enemy.	noun	14	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
stratified	to form or place in 	verb (used with object)	14	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
stratum	a layer of material, naturally or artificially formed, often one of a number of parallel layers one upon another	noun	11	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
strew	to let fall in separate pieces or particles over a surface; scatter or sprinkle	verb (used with object)	8	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
striated	marked with striae; furrowed; striped; streaked.	adjective	9	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
stricture	a remark or comment, especially an adverse criticism	noun	13	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
strident	making or having a harsh sound; grating; creaking	adjective	10	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
stringent	rigorously binding or exacting; strict; severe	adjective	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
strut	to walk with a vain, pompous bearing, as with head erect and chest thrown out, as if expecting to impress observers.	verb (used without object)	6	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
studied	marked by or suggestive of conscious effort; not spontaneous or natural; affected	adjective	10	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
studious	disposed or given to diligent 	adjective	11	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
stultify	to make, or cause to appear, foolish or ridiculous.	verb (used with object)	15	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
stumble	to strike the foot against something, as in walking or running, so as to stagger or fall; trip.	verb (used without object)	15	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
stump	the lower end of a tree or plant left after the main part falls or is cut off; a standing tree trunk from which the upper part and branches have been removed.	noun	12	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
stun	to deprive of consciousness or strength by or as if by a blow, fall, etc.	verb (used with object)	6	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
stupefy	to put into a state of little or no sensibility; benumb the faculties of; put into a stupor.	verb (used with object)	16	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
stupor	suspension or great diminution of sensibility, as in disease or as caused by narcotics, intoxicants, etc.	noun	10	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
sturdy	strongly built; stalwart; robust	adjective	10	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
stygian	of or relating to the river Styx or to Hades.	adjective	12	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
stymie	Golf. (on a putting green) an instance of a ball's lying on a direct line between the cup and the ball of an opponent about to putt.	noun	11	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
suavity	a 	noun	14	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
subaltern	lower in rank; subordinate	adjective	15	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
subdue	to conquer and bring into subjection	verb (used with object)	12	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
subjective	existing in the mind; belonging to the thinking subject rather than to the object of thought (opposed to 	adjective	30	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
subjugate	to bring under complete control or subjection; conquer; master.	verb (used with object)	25	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
sublimate	Psychology. to divert the energy of (a sexual or other biological impulse) from its immediate goal to one of a more acceptable social, moral, or aesthetic nature or use.	verb (used with object)	17	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
sublime	elevated or lofty in thought, language, etc.	adjective	15	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
subliminal	existing or operating below the threshold of consciousness; being or employing stimuli insufficiently intense to produce a discrete sensation but often being or designed to be intense enough to influence the mental processes or the behavior of the individual	adjective	20	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
submerge	to put or sink below the surface of water or any other enveloping medium.	verb (used with object)	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
submissive	inclined or ready to 	adjective	21	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
subordinate	placed in or belonging to a lower order or rank.	adjective	17	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
suborn	to bribe or induce (someone) unlawfully or secretly to perform some misdeed or to commit a crime.	verb (used with object)	11	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
subpoena	the usual writ for the summoning of witnesses or the submission of evidence, as records or documents, before a court or other deliberative body.	noun	16	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
subsequent	occurring or coming later or after (often followed by to)	adjective	25	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
subservient	serving or acting in a subordinate capacity; subordinate.	adjective	20	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
subside	to sink to a low or lower level.	verb (used without object)	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
subsidiary	serving to assist or supplement; auxiliary; supplementary.	adjective	17	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
subsidy	a direct pecuniary aid furnished by a government to a private industrial undertaking, a charity organization, or the like.	noun	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
subsistence	the state or fact of subsisting.	noun	19	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
substantial	of ample or considerable amount, quantity, size, etc.	adjective	17	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
substantiate	to establish by proof or competent evidence	verb (used with object)	17	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
substantive	a noun.	noun	20	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
subsume	to consider or include (an idea, term, proposition, etc.) as part of a more comprehensive one.	verb (used with object)	15	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
subterfuge	an artifice or expedient used to evade a rule, escape a consequence, hide something, etc.	noun	20	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
subtlety	the state or quality of being 	noun	15	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
subversive	Also, subversionary          	adjective	22	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
succor	help; relief; aid; assistance.	noun	13	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
succulent	full of juice; juicy.	adjective	19	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
succumb	to give way to superior force; yield	verb (used without object)	21	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
suckle	to nurse at the breast or udder.	verb (used with object)	15	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
suffocate	to kill by preventing the access of air to the blood through the lungs or analogous organs, as gills; strangle.	verb (used with object)	19	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
suffragist	an advocate of the grant or extension of political 	noun	19	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
suffuse	to overspread with or as with a liquid, color, etc.	verb (used with object)	15	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
suitor	a man who courts or woos a woman.	noun	7	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
sullen	showing irritation or ill humor by a gloomy silence or reserve.	adjective	10	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
sully	to soil, stain, or tarnish.	verb (used with object)	10	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
sultry	oppressively hot and close or moist; sweltering	adjective	10	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
summation	the act or process of 	noun	17	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
sumptuous	entailing great expense, as from choice materials, fine work, etc.; costly	adjective	18	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
sunder	to separate; part; divide; sever.	verb (used with object)	9	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
sundry	various or diverse	adjective	11	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
superannuated	retired because of age or infirmity.	adjective	21	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
supercilious	haughtily disdainful or contemptuous, as a person or a facial expression.	adjective	21	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
supererogatory	going beyond the requirements of duty.	adjective	22	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
superficial	being at, on, or near the surface	adjective	22	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
superfluous	being more than is sufficient or required; excessive.	adjective	21	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
superimpose	to 	verb (used with object)	21	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
supernumerary	being in excess of the usual, proper, or prescribed number; additional; extra.	adjective	24	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
supersede	to replace in power, authority, effectiveness, acceptance, use, etc., as by another person or thing.	verb (used with object)	14	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
supine	lying on the back, face or front upward.	adjective	11	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
supplant	to take the place of (another), as through force, scheming, strategy, or the like.	verb (used with object)	17	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
supple	bending readily without breaking or becoming deformed; pliant; flexible	adjective	14	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
suppliant	a person who 	noun	18	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
supplicant		adjective	22	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
supplicate	to pray humbly; make humble and earnest entreaty or petition.	verb (used without object)	21	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
supposition	the act of 	noun	19	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
supposititious	fraudulently substituted or pretended; spurious; not genuine.	adjective	22	67-Few English speakers likely know this word
suppress	to put an end to the activities of (a person, body of persons, etc.)	verb (used with object)	15	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
surfeit	excess; an excessive amount	noun	11	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
surge	a strong, wavelike, forward movement, rush, or sweep	noun	8	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
surly	churlishly rude or bad-tempered	adjective	9	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
surmise	to think or infer without certain or strong evidence; conjecture; guess.	verb (used with object)	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
surmount	to mount upon; get on the top of; mount upon and cross over	verb (used with object)	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
surpass	to go beyond in amount, extent, or degree; be greater than; exceed.	verb (used with object)	11	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
surreptitious	obtained, done, made, etc., by stealth; secret or unauthorized; clandestine	adjective	18	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
surrogate	a person appointed to act for another; deputy.	noun	12	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
surveillance	a watch kept over a person, group, etc., especially over a suspect, prisoner, or the like	noun	23	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
susceptible	admitting or capable of some specified treatment	adjective	22	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
suspend	to hang by attachment to something above	verb (used with object)	13	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
suspense	a state or condition of mental uncertainty or excitement, as in awaiting a decision or outcome, usually accompanied by a degree of apprehension or anxiety.	noun	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
sustain	to support, hold, or bear up from below; bear the weight of, as a structure.	verb (used with object)	9	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
sustenance	means of 	noun	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
suture	Surgery.    a joining of the lips or edges of a wound or the like by stitching or some similar process.    a particular method of doing this.    one of the stitches or fastenings employed.  	noun	8	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
swagger	to walk or strut with a defiant or insolent air.	verb (used without object)	14	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
swamp	a tract of wet, spongy land, often having a growth of certain types of trees and other vegetation, but unfit for cultivation.	noun	14	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
swarm	a body of honeybees that emigrate from a hive and fly off together, accompanied by a queen, to start a new colony.	noun	11	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
swarthy	(of skin color, complexion, etc.) dark.	adjective	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
swathe	to wrap, bind, or swaddle with bands of some material; wrap up closely or fully.	verb (used with object)	11	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
sway	to move or swing to and fro, as something fixed at one end or resting on a support.	verb (used without object)	9	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
swear	to make a solemn declaration or affirmation by some sacred being or object, as a deity or the Bible.	verb (used without object)	8	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
swear-word	a word used in 	noun	16	70-Few English speakers likely know this word
swell	to grow in bulk, as by the absorption of moisture or the processes of growth.	verb (used without object)	10	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
swelter	to suffer from oppressive heat.	verb (used without object)	11	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
swerve	to turn aside abruptly in movement or direction; deviate suddenly from the straight or direct course.	verb (used without object)	13	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
swill	liquid or partly liquid food for animals, especially kitchen refuse given to swine; hogwash.	noun	10	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
swindler	to cheat (a person, business, etc.) out of money or other assets.	verb (used with object)	14	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
swipe	a strong, sweeping blow, as with a cricket bat or golf club.	noun	11	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
sybarite	(usually lowercase) a person devoted to luxury and pleasure.	noun	13	72-Few English speakers likely know this word
sycophant	a self-seeking, servile flatterer; fawning parasite.	noun	20	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
sylvan	of, relating to, or inhabiting the woods.	adjective	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
symbiosis	Biology.    the living together of two dissimilar organisms, as in mutualism, commensalism, amensalism, or parasitism.    (formerly) 	noun	17	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
symmetry	the correspondence in size, form, and arrangement of parts on opposite sides of a plane, line, or point; regularity of form or arrangement in terms of like, reciprocal, or corresponding parts.	noun	18	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
synchronous	occurring at the same time; coinciding in time; contemporaneous; simultaneous.	adjective	21	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
synoptic	pertaining to or constituting a 	adjective	17	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
synthesis	the combining of the constituent elements of separate material or abstract entities into a single or unified entity (opposed to 	noun	14	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
synthetic	of, pertaining to, proceeding by, or involving synthesis (opposed to 	adjective	17	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
tablet	a number of sheets of writing paper, business forms, etc., fastened together at the edge; pad.	noun	10	10-All English speakers likely know this word
tacit	understood without being openly expressed; implied	adjective	8	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
taciturn	inclined to silence; reserved in speech; reluctant to join in conversation.	adjective	13	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
tact	a keen sense of what to say or do to avoid giving offense; skill in dealing with difficult or delicate situations.	noun	7	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
tactile	of, pertaining to, endowed with, or affecting the sense of touch.	adjective	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
taint	a trace of something bad, offensive, or harmful.	noun	6	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
takeoff	a taking or setting off; the leaving of the ground, as in leaping or in beginning a flight in an airplane.	noun	17	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
talisman	a stone, ring, or other object, engraved with figures or characters supposed to possess occult powers and worn as an amulet or charm.	noun	13	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
talon	a claw, especially of a bird of prey.	noun	7	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
tan	to convert (a hide) into leather, especially by soaking or steeping in a bath prepared from 	verb (used with object)	4	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
tangential	pertaining to or of the nature of a 	adjective	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
tangible	capable of being touched; discernible by the touch; material or substantial.	adjective	15	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
tanner	a person whose occupation it is to 	noun	8	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
tantalize	to torment with, or as if with, the sight of something desired but out of reach; tease by arousing expectations that are repeatedly disappointed.	verb (used with object)	20	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
tantamount	equivalent, as in value, force, effect, or signification	adjective	16	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
tantrum	a violent demonstration of rage or frustration; a sudden burst of ill temper.	noun	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
taper	to become smaller or thinner toward one end.	verb (used without object)	8	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
tarantula	any of several large, hairy spiders of the family Theraphosidae, as Aphonopelma chalcodes, of the southwestern U.S., having a painful but not highly venomous bite.	noun	12	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
tardy	late; behind time; not on time	adjective	8	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
tarnish	to dull the luster of (a metallic surface), especially by oxidation; discolor.	verb (used with object)	10	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
tarry	to remain or stay, as in a place; sojourn	verb (used without object)	7	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
tart	sharp to the taste; sour or acid	adjective	4	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
tatter	a torn piece hanging loose from the main part, as of a garment or flag.	noun	6	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
taunt	to reproach in a sarcastic, insulting, or jeering manner; mock.	verb (used with object)	7	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
taut	tightly drawn; tense; not slack.	adjective	5	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
tawdry	(of finery, trappings, etc.) gaudy; showy and cheap.	adjective	12	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
tawny	of a dark yellowish or dull yellowish-brown color.	adjective	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
taxonomist	the science or technique of classification.	noun	21	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
tedium	the quality or state of being wearisome; irksomeness; tediousness.	noun	11	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
teetotalism	the principle or practice of total abstinence from intoxicating drink.	noun	15	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
temerity	reckless boldness; rashness.	noun	13	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
temper	a particular state of mind or feelings.	noun	12	11-All English speakers likely know this word
temperament	the combination of mental, physical, and emotional traits of a person; natural predisposition.	noun	21	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
temperate	moderate or self-restrained; not extreme in opinion, statement, etc.	adjective	15	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
tempestuous	characterized by or subject to 	adjective	19	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
tempo	Music. relative rapidity or rate of movement, usually indicated by such terms as adagio, allegro, etc., or by reference to the metronome.	noun	11	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
temporal	of or relating to time.	adjective	15	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
temporize	to be indecisive or evasive to gain time or delay acting.	verb (used without object)	24	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
tenacious	holding fast; characterized by keeping a firm hold (often followed by of)	adjective	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
tenacity	the quality of being 	noun	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
tenancy	a holding, as of lands, by any kind of title; occupancy of land, a house, or the like, under a lease or on payment of rent; tenure.	noun	14	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
tenant	a person or group that rents and occupies land, a house, an office, or the like, from another for a period of time; lessee.	noun	8	8-All English speakers likely know this word
tend	to be disposed or inclined in action, operation, or effect to do something	verb (used without object)	6	6-All English speakers likely know this word
tendentious	having or showing a definite 	adjective	15	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
tender	soft or delicate in substance; not hard or tough	adjective	8	6-All English speakers likely know this word
tenet	any opinion, principle, doctrine, dogma, etc., especially one held as true by members of a profession, group, or movement.	noun	6	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
tensile	of or relating to tension	adjective	9	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
tension	the act of stretching or straining.	noun	9	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
tentative	of the nature of or made or done as a trial, experiment, or attempt; experimental	adjective	14	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
tenuous	thin or slender in form, as a thread.	adjective	10	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
tenure	the holding or possessing of anything	noun	8	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
tepid	moderately warm; lukewarm	adjective	9	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
terminal	situated at or forming the end or extremity of something	adjective	13	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
termination	the act of 	noun	16	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
terminology	the system of terms belonging or peculiar to a science, art, or specialized subject; nomenclature	noun	20	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
terminus	the end or extremity of anything.	noun	13	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
terrestrial	pertaining to, consisting of, or representing the earth as distinct from other planets.	adjective	12	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
terse	neatly or effectively concise; brief and pithy, as language.	adjective	5	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
tertiary	of the third order, rank, stage, formation, etc.; third.	adjective	10	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
tessellated	of, relating to, or like a mosaic.	adjective	14	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
testator	a person who makes a will.	noun	8	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
testy	irritably impatient; touchy.	adjective	7	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
tether	a rope, chain, or the like, by which an animal is fastened to a fixed object so as to limit its range of movement.	noun	8	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
thematic	of or relating to a theme.	adjective	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
theocracy	a form of government in which God or a deity is recognized as the supreme civil ruler, the God's or deity's laws being interpreted by the ecclesiastical authorities.	noun	19	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
theoretical	of, relating to, or consisting in 	adjective	17	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
therapeutic	of or relating to the treating or curing of disease; curative.	adjective	20	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
thermal	Also, 	adjective	13	8-All English speakers likely know this word
thesis	a proposition stated or put forward for consideration, especially one to be discussed and proved or to be maintained against objections	noun	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
thespian	(often lowercase) pertaining to tragedy or to the dramatic art in general.	adjective	14	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
thrall	a person who is in bondage; slave.	noun	10	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
thrash	to beat soundly in punishment; flog.	verb (used with object)	10	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
threadbare	having the nap worn off so as to lay bare the threads of the warp and woof, as a fabric, garment, etc.	adjective	16	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
threat	a declaration of an intention or determination to inflict punishment, injury, etc., in retaliation for, or conditionally upon, some action or course; menace	noun	8	6-All English speakers likely know this word
thresh	to separate the grain or seeds from (a cereal plant or the like) by some mechanical means, as by beating with a flail or by the action of a 	verb (used with object)	10	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
thrifty	practicing 	adjective	14	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
thrive	to prosper; be fortunate or successful.	verb (used without object)	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
throb	to beat with increased force or rapidity, as the heart under the influence of emotion or excitement; palpitate.	verb (used without object)	10	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
throes	a violent spasm or pang; paroxysm.	noun	8	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
throng	a multitude of people crowded or assembled together; crowd.	noun	11	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
throttle	Also called 	noun	11	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
thwart	to oppose successfully; prevent from accomplishing a purpose.	verb (used with object)	11	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
tickle	to touch or stroke lightly with the fingers, a feather, etc., so as to excite a tingling or itching sensation in; titillate.	verb (used with object)	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
tightwad	a close-fisted or stingy person.	noun	16	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
tiller	a person who 	noun	8	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
timbre	Acoustics, Phonetics. the characteristic quality of a sound, independent of pitch and loudness, from which its source or manner of production can be inferred. Timbre depends on the relative strengths of the components of different frequencies, which are determined by resonance.	noun	12	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
timidity	lacking in self-assurance, courage, or bravery; easily alarmed; timorous; shy.	adjective	14	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
timorous	full of fear; fearful	adjective	12	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
tinge	to impart a trace or slight degree of some color to; tint.	verb (used with object)	8	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
tint	a color or a variety of a color; hue.	noun	5	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
tipple	to drink intoxicating liquor, especially habitually or to some excess.	verb (used without object)	13	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
tirade	a prolonged outburst of bitter, outspoken denunciation	noun	7	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
titanic	of or containing 	adjective	11	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
tithe	Sometimes, tithes. the tenth part of agricultural produce or personal income set apart as an offering to God or for works of mercy, or the same amount regarded as an obligation or tax for the support of the church, priesthood, or the like.	noun	7	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
titillate	to excite or arouse agreeably	verb (used with object)	11	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
title	the distinguishing name of a book, poem, picture, piece of music, or the like.	noun	6	7-All English speakers likely know this word
titter	to laugh in a restrained, self-conscious, or affected way, as from nervousness or in ill-suppressed amusement.	verb (used without object)	6	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
titular	existing or being such in 	adjective	9	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
toady	an obsequious flatterer; sycophant.	noun	8	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
toga	(in ancient Rome) the loose outer garment worn by citizens in public.	noun	6	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
token	something serving to represent or indicate some fact, event, feeling, etc.; sign	noun	10	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
toll	a payment or fee exacted by the state, the local authorities, etc., for some right or privilege, as for passage along a road or over a bridge.	noun	6	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
tome	a book, especially a very heavy, large, or learned book.	noun	7	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
tonsure	the act of cutting the hair or shaving the head.	noun	9	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
topography	the detailed mapping or charting of the features of a relatively small area, district, or locality.	noun	22	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
topple	to fall forward, as from having too heavy a top; pitch; tumble down.	verb (used without object)	13	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
torpedo	a self-propelled, cigar-shaped missile containing explosives and often equipped with a homing device, launched from a submarine or other warship, for destroying surface vessels or other submarines.	noun	11	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
torpor	sluggish inactivity or inertia.	noun	9	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
torque	Mechanics. something that produces or tends to produce torsion or rotation; the moment of a force or system of forces tending to cause rotation.	noun	16	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
torrent	a stream of water flowing with great rapidity and violence.	noun	8	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
torrid	subject to parching or burning heat, especially of the sun, as a geographical area	adjective	7	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
torso	the trunk of the human body.	noun	5	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
tortuous	full of twists, turns, or bends; twisting, winding, or crooked	adjective	10	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
toss	to throw, pitch, or fling, especially to throw lightly or carelessly	verb (used with object)	4	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
totem	a natural object or an animate being, as an animal or bird, assumed as the emblem of a clan, family, or group.	noun	8	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
totter	to walk or go with faltering steps, as if from extreme weakness.	verb (used without object)	6	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
touching	affecting; moving; pathetic	adjective	17	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
touchstone	a test or criterion for the qualities of a thing.	noun	17	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
touchy	apt to take offense on slight provocation; irritable	adjective	14	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
tout	to solicit business, employment, votes, or the like, importunately.	verb (used without object)	5	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
toxic	of, pertaining to, affected with, or caused by a 	adjective	15	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
tract	an expanse or area of land, water, etc.; region; stretch.	noun	8	8-All English speakers likely know this word
tractable	easily managed or controlled; docile; yielding	adjective	16	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
traduce	to speak maliciously and falsely of; slander; defame	verb (used with object)	12	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
trajectory	the curve described by a projectile, rocket, or the like in its flight.	noun	24	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
tramp	to tread or walk with a firm, heavy, resounding step.	verb (used without object)	11	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
trample	to tread or step heavily and noisily; stamp.	verb (used without object)	14	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
trance	a half-conscious state, seemingly between sleeping and waking, in which ability to function voluntarily may be suspended.	noun	10	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
tranquillity	quality or state of being 	noun	27	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
transcendent	going beyond ordinary limits; surpassing; exceeding.	adjective	19	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
transcendental	transcendent, surpassing, or superior.	adjective	22	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
transcribe	to make a written copy, especially a typewritten copy, of (dictated material, notes taken during a lecture, or other spoken material).	verb (used with object)	17	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
transgression	an act of 	noun	17	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
transient	not lasting, enduring, or permanent; transitory.	adjective	11	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
transition	movement, passage, or change from one position, state, stage, subject, concept, etc., to another; change	noun	12	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
transitory	not lasting, enduring, permanent, or eternal.	adjective	13	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
translucent	permitting light to pass through but diffusing it so that persons, objects, etc., on the opposite side are not clearly visible	adjective	18	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
transmute	to change from one nature, substance, form, or condition into another; transform.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	14	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
transparent	having the property of transmitting rays of light through its substance so that bodies situated beyond or behind can be distinctly seen.	adjective	16	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
transpire	to occur; happen; take place.	verb (used without object)	13	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
transport	to carry, move, or convey from one place to another.	verb (used with object)	13	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
transpose	to change the relative position, order, or sequence of; cause to change places; interchange	verb (used with object)	13	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
trappings	articles of equipment or dress, especially of an ornamental character.	noun	18	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
traumatic	of, relating to, or produced by a 	adjective	16	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
travail	painfully difficult or burdensome work; toil.	noun	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
traverse	to pass or move over, along, or through.	verb (used with object)	12	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
travesty	a literary or artistic burlesque of a serious work or subject, characterized by grotesque or ludicrous incongruity of style, treatment, or subject matter.	noun	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
tread	to set down the foot or feet in walking; step; walk.	verb (used without object)	6	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
treasure	wealth or riches stored or accumulated, especially in the form of precious metals, money, jewels, or plate.	noun	9	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
treatise	a formal and systematic exposition in writing of the principles of a subject, generally longer and more detailed than an essay.	noun	8	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
trek	to travel or migrate, especially slowly or with difficulty.	verb (used without object)	8	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
tremor	involuntary shaking of the body or limbs, as from disease, fear, weakness, or excitement; a fit of trembling.	noun	9	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
tremulous	(of persons, the body, etc.) characterized by trembling, as from fear, nervousness, or weakness.	adjective	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
trenchant	incisive or keen, as language or a person; caustic; cutting	adjective	16	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
trepidation	tremulous fear, alarm, or agitation; perturbation.	noun	16	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
tribulation	grievous trouble; severe trial or suffering.	noun	17	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
tribunal	a court of justice.	noun	14	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
tribune	a person who upholds or defends the rights of the people.	noun	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
tribute	a gift, testimonial, compliment, or the like, given as due or in acknowledgment of gratitude or esteem.	noun	11	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
trickle	to flow or fall by drops, or in a small, gentle stream	verb (used without object)	15	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
trickster	a deceiver; cheat; fraud.	noun	16	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
trident	a three-pronged instrument or weapon.	noun	9	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
trifle	an article or thing of very little value.	noun	10	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
trifling	of very little importance; trivial; insignificant	adjective	15	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
trigger	a small projecting tongue in a firearm that, when pressed by the finger, actuates the mechanism that discharges the weapon.	noun	11	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
trilogy	a series or group of three plays, novels, operas, etc., that, although individually complete, are closely related in theme, sequence, or the like.	noun	12	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
trim	to put into a neat or orderly condition by clipping, paring, pruning, etc.	verb (used with object)	7	9-All English speakers likely know this word
trinket	a small ornament, piece of jewelry, etc., usually of little value.	noun	12	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
trite	lacking in freshness or effectiveness because of constant use or excessive repetition; hackneyed; stale	adjective	5	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
trivia	matters or things that are very unimportant, inconsequential, or nonessential; trifles; trivialities.	plural noun	10	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
troth	faithfulness, fidelity, or loyalty	noun	7	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
trough	a long, narrow, open receptacle, usually boxlike in shape, used chiefly to hold water or food for animals.	noun	11	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
truculence	fierce; cruel; savagely brutal.	adjective	20	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
truism	a self-evident, obvious truth.	noun	10	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
truncate	to shorten by cutting off a part; cut short	verb (used with object)	13	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
trunk	the main stem of a tree, as distinct from the branches and roots.	noun	11	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
tryst	an appointment to meet at a certain time and place, especially one made somewhat secretly by lovers.	noun	7	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
tumid	swollen, or affected with swelling, as a part of the body.	adjective	10	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
tumult	violent and noisy commotion or disturbance of a crowd or mob; uproar	noun	12	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
tundra	one of the vast, nearly level, treeless plains of the arctic regions of Europe, Asia, and North America.	noun	9	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
turbid	not clear or transparent because of stirred-up sediment or the like; clouded; opaque; obscured	adjective	11	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
turbulence	the quality or state of being 	noun	20	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
tureen	a large, deep, covered dish for serving soup, stew, or other foods.	noun	8	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
turgid	swollen; distended; tumid.	adjective	10	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
turmoil	a state of great commotion, confusion, or disturbance; tumult; agitation; disquiet	noun	12	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
turncoat	a person who changes to the opposite party or faction, reverses principles, etc.; renegade.	noun	13	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
turpitude	vile, shameful, or base character; depravity.	noun	15	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
tutelage	the act of guarding, protecting, or guiding; office or function of a guardian; guardianship.	noun	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
tutelary	having the position of guardian or protector of a person, place, or thing	adjective	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
tycoon	a person of great wealth, influence, or power; magnate	noun	12	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
typhoon	a tropical cyclone or hurricane of the western Pacific area and the China seas.	noun	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
tyranny	arbitrary or unrestrained exercise of power; despotic abuse of authority.  Synonyms	noun	13	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
tyro	a beginner in learning anything; novice.	noun	6	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
ubiquitous	existing or being everywhere, especially at the same time; omnipresent	adjective	25	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
ulcer	Pathology. a sore on the skin or a mucous membrane, accompanied by the disintegration of tissue, the formation of pus, etc.	noun	10	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
ulterior	being beyond what is seen or avowed; intentionally kept concealed	adjective	10	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
ultimate	last; furthest or farthest; ending a process or series	adjective	13	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
ultimatum	a final, uncompromising demand or set of terms issued by a party to a dispute, the rejection of which may lead to a severance of relations or to the use of force.	noun	18	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
umbrage	offense; annoyance; displeasure	noun	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
unaccountable	impossible to account for; unexplained; inexplicable	adjective	27	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
unanimity	the state or quality of being 	noun	17	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
unassailable	not open to attack or assault, as by military force or argument	adjective	19	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
unassuaged	to make milder or less severe; relieve; ease; mitigate	verb (used with object)	16	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
unassuming	modest; unpretentious.	adjective	19	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
unbridled	not controlled or restrained	adjective	17	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
uncanny	having or seeming to have a supernatural or inexplicable basis; beyond the ordinary or normal; extraordinary	adjective	16	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
unceremonious	discourteously abrupt; hasty; rude	adjective	23	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
unconscionable	not guided by conscience; unscrupulous.	adjective	28	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
uncouth	awkward, clumsy, or unmannerly	adjective	15	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
unction	an act of anointing, especially as a medical treatment or religious rite.	noun	13	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
unctuous	characterized by excessive piousness or moralistic fervor, especially in an affected manner; excessively smooth, suave, or smug.	adjective	15	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
underhand	not open and aboveboard; secret and crafty or dishonorable	adjective	16	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
underlying	lying or situated beneath, as a substratum.	adjective	19	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
undermine	to injure or destroy by insidious activity or imperceptible stages, sometimes tending toward a sudden dramatic effect.	verb (used with object)	16	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
underscore	to mark with a line or lines underneath; underline, as for emphasis.	verb (used with object)	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
understate	to 	verb (used with object)	13	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
undertaker		noun	17	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
undulating	to move with a sinuous or wavelike motion; display a smooth rising-and-falling or side-to-side alternation of movement	verb (used without object)	18	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
unearth	to dig or get out of the earth; dig up.	verb (used with object)	11	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
unearthly	seeming not to belong to this earth or world	adjective	16	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
unequivocal	not 	adjective	31	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
unerringly	not 	adjective	18	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
unexceptionable	not offering any basis for exception or objection; beyond criticism	adjective	35	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
unfaltering	to hesitate or waver in action, purpose, intent, etc.; give way	verb (used without object)	20	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
unfeigned	not feigned; sincere; genuine.	adjective	18	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
unfetter	to release from fetters.	verb (used with object)	13	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
unfledged	not 	adjective	19	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
unfrock	to deprive (a monk, priest, minister, etc.) of ecclesiastical rank, authority, and function; depose.	verb (used with object)	19	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
ungainly	not graceful; awkward; unwieldy; clumsy	adjective	16	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
unguent	an ointment or salve, usually liquid or semiliquid, for application to wounds, sores, etc.	noun	13	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
uniformity	the state or quality of being 	noun	20	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
unilateral	relating to, occurring on, or involving one side only	adjective	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
unimpeachable	above suspicion; impossible to discredit; impeccable	adjective	30	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
uninhibited	not 	adjective	20	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
uninhibited	not 	adjective	20	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
unintimidating	to make timid; fill with fear.	verb (used with object)	0	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
unique	existing as the only one or as the sole example; single; solitary in type or characteristics	adjective	18	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
unison	coincidence in pitch of two or more musical tones, voices, etc.	noun	9	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
universal	of, relating to, or characteristic of all or the whole	adjective	16	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
unkempt	not combed	adjective	19	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
unmitigated	not mitigated; not softened or lessened	adjective	19	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
unobtrusive	not 	adjective	21	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
unprecedented	without previous instance; never before known or experienced; unexampled or unparalleled	adjective	24	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
unprepossessing	that impresses favorably; engaging or attractive	adjective	26	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
unravel	to separate or disentangle the threads of (a woven or knitted fabric, a rope, etc.).	verb (used with object)	14	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
unregenerate	not 	adjective	17	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
unrequited	not returned or reciprocated	adjective	23	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
unruly	not submissive or conforming to rule; ungovernable; turbulent; intractable; refractory; lawless	adjective	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
unsavory	not 	adjective	16	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
unscathed	not scathed; unharmed; uninjured	adjective	17	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
unseemly	not 	adjective	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
unsightly	distasteful or unpleasant to look at	adjective	18	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
untenable	incapable of being defended, as an argument, thesis, etc.; indefensible.	adjective	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
untoward	unfavorable or unfortunate	adjective	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
unwarranted	authorization, sanction, or justification.	noun	18	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
unwieldy	not wieldy; wielded with difficulty; not readily handled or managed in use or action, as from size, shape, or weight; awkward; ungainly.	adjective	17	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
unwitting	inadvertent; unintentional; accidental	adjective	17	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
unwonted	not customary or usual; rare	adjective	15	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
upbraid	to find fault with or reproach severely; censure	verb (used with object)	15	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
upright	erect or vertical, as in position or posture.	adjective	15	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
uproar	a state of violent and noisy disturbance, as of a multitude; turmoil.	noun	10	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
uproarious	characterized by or in a state of 	adjective	15	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
upshot	the final issue, the conclusion, or the result	noun	12	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
urbane	having the polish and suavity regarded as characteristic of sophisticated social life in major cities	adjective	11	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
urchin	a mischievous boy.	noun	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
urge	to push or force along; impel with force or vigor	verb (used with object)	7	6-All English speakers likely know this word
urgent	compelling or requiring immediate action or attention; imperative; pressing	adjective	10	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
ursine	of or relating to a bear or bears.	adjective	8	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
usage	a customary way of doing something; a custom or practice	noun	8	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
usurp	to seize and hold (a position, office, power, etc.) by force or without legal right	verb (used with object)	10	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
usury	the lending or practice of lending money at an exorbitant interest.	noun	9	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
utopia	an imaginary island described in Sir Thomas More's Utopia (1516) as enjoying perfection in law, politics, etc.	noun	10	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
uxorious	doting upon, foolishly fond of, or affectionately submissive toward one's wife.	adjective	17	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
vacillate	to waver in mind or opinion; be indecisive or irresolute	verb (used without object)	18	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
vacuous	without contents; empty	adjective	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
vagabond	wandering from place to place without any settled home; nomadic	adjective	19	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
vagary	an unpredictable or erratic action, occurrence, course, or instance	noun	14	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
vagrant	a person who wanders about idly and has no permanent home or employment; vagabond; tramp.	noun	14	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
vain	excessively proud of or concerned about one's own appearance, qualities, achievements, etc.; conceited	adjective	9	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
vainglorious	filled with or given to 	adjective	21	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
valediction	an act of bidding farewell or taking leave.	noun	21	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
valedictory	bidding goodbye; saying farewell	adjective	22	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
valid	sound; just; well-founded	adjective	11	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
validate	to make 	verb (used with object)	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
valor	boldness or determination in facing great danger, especially in battle; heroic courage; bravery	noun	10	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
vampire	a preternatural being, commonly believed to be a reanimated corpse, that is said to suck the blood of sleeping persons at night.	noun	17	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
vanguard	the foremost division or the front part of an army; advance guard; van.	noun	17	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
vantage	a position, condition, or place affording some 	noun	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
vapid	lacking or having lost life, sharpness, or flavor; insipid; flat	adjective	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
vaporize	to cause to change into 	verb (used with object)	24	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
variegate	to make varied in appearance, as by adding different colors.	verb (used with object)	15	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
variegated	varied in appearance or color; marked with patches or spots of different colors.	adjective	17	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
varnish	a preparation consisting of resinous matter, as copal or lac, dissolved in an oil (oil varnish) or in alcohol (spirit varnish) or other volatile liquid. When applied to the surface of wood, metal, etc., it dries and leaves a hard, more or less glossy, usually transparent coating.	noun	14	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
vassal	(in the feudal system) a person granted the use of land, in return for rendering homage, fealty, and usually military service or its equivalent to a lord or other superior; feudal tenant.	noun	11	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
vaunted	praised boastfully or excessively	adjective	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
veer	to change direction or turn about or aside; shift, turn, or change from one course, position, inclination, etc., to another	verb (used without object)	8	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
vegetate	to grow in, or as in, the manner of a plant.	verb (used without object)	14	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
vehement	zealous; ardent; impassioned	adjective	18	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
velocity	rapidity of motion or operation; swiftness; speed	noun	18	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
venal	willing to sell one's influence, especially in return for a bribe; open to bribery; mercenary	adjective	11	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
vendetta	a private feud in which the members of the family of a murdered person seek to avenge the murder by killing the slayer or one of the slayer's relatives, especially such vengeance as once practiced in Corsica and parts of Italy.	noun	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
vendor	a person or agency that sells.	noun	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
veneer	a thin layer of wood or other material for facing or inlaying wood.	noun	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
venerable	commanding respect because of great age or impressive dignity; worthy of 	adjective	18	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
venerate	to regard or treat with reverence; revere.	verb (used with object)	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
venial	able to be forgiven or pardoned; not seriously wrong, as a sin (opposed to 	adjective	12	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
venison	the flesh of a deer or similar animal as used for food.	noun	13	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
venom	the poisonous fluid that some animals, as certain snakes and spiders, secrete and introduce into the bodies of their victims by biting, stinging, etc.	noun	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
vent	an opening, as in a wall, serving as an outlet for air, smoke, fumes, or the like.	noun	9	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
ventilate	to provide (a room, mine, etc.) with fresh air in place of air that has been used or contaminated.	verb (used with object)	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
ventral	of or relating to the 	adjective	13	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
ventriloquist	a person who performs or is skilled in 	noun	29	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
venture	an undertaking involving uncertainty as to the outcome, especially a risky or dangerous one	noun	13	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
venturesome	having or showing a disposition to undertake risky or dangerous activities; daring	adjective	20	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
venue	Law.    the place of a crime or cause of action.    the county or place where the jury is gathered and the cause tried.    the designation, in the pleading, of the jurisdiction where a trial will be held.    the statement naming the place and person before whom an affidavit was sworn.  	noun	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
veracious	habitually speaking the truth; truthful; honest	adjective	17	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
veracity	habitual observance of truth in speech or statement; truthfulness	noun	17	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
verbalize	to express in words	verb (used with object)	26	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
verbatim	in exactly the same words; word for word	adverb	18	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
verbiage	overabundance or superfluity of words, as in writing or speech; wordiness; verbosity.	noun	17	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
verbose	characterized by the use of many or too many words; wordy	adjective	14	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
verdant	green with vegetation; covered with growing plants or grass	adjective	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
verdigris	a green or bluish patina formed on copper, brass, or bronze surfaces exposed to the atmosphere for long periods of time, consisting principally of basic copper sulfate.	noun	16	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
verge	the edge, rim, or margin of something	noun	11	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
verisimilar	having the appearance of truth; likely; probable	adjective	19	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
verisimilitude	the appearance or semblance of truth; likelihood; probability	noun	24	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
veritable	being truly or very much so	adjective	17	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
verity	the state or quality of being true; accordance with fact or reality	noun	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
vernacular	(of language) native or indigenous (opposed to 	adjective	20	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
vernal	of or relating to spring	adjective	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
versatile	capable of or adapted for turning easily from one to another of various tasks, fields of endeavor, etc.	adjective	14	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
vertebrate	having vertebrae; having a backbone or spinal column.	adjective	17	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
vertex	the highest point of something; apex; summit; top	noun	17	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
vertigo	a dizzying sensation of tilting within stable surroundings or of being in tilting or spinning surroundings.	noun	13	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
verve	enthusiasm or vigor, as in literary or artistic work; spirit	noun	13	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
vestige	a mark, trace, or visible evidence of something that is no longer present or in existence	noun	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
veto	the power or right vested in one branch of a government to cancel or postpone the decisions, enactments, etc., of another branch, especially the right of a president, governor, or other chief executive to reject bills passed by the legislature.	noun	8	9-All English speakers likely know this word
vex	to irritate; annoy; provoke	verb (used with object)	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
viable	capable of living.	adjective	14	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
viand	an article of food.	noun	11	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
vibrant	moving to and fro rapidly; 	adjective	15	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
vicar	Church of England.    a person acting as priest of a parish in place of the rector, or as representative of a religious community to which tithes belong.    the priest of a parish the tithes of which are impropriated and who receives only the smaller tithes or a salary.  	noun	12	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
vicarious	performed, exercised, received, or suffered in place of another	adjective	17	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
vicissitude	a change or variation occurring in the course of something.	noun	20	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
victuals	victuals, food supplies; provisions.	noun	17	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
vie	to strive in competition or rivalry with another; contend for superiority	verb (used without object)	7	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
vigil	wakefulness maintained for any reason during the normal hours for sleeping.	noun	12	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
vigilant	keenly watchful to detect danger; wary	adjective	16	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
vigilante	a member of a vigilance committee.	noun	17	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
vignette	a decorative design or small illustration used on the title page of a book or at the beginning or end of a chapter.	noun	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
vigor	active strength or force.	noun	11	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
vile	wretchedly bad	adjective	9	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
vilify	to speak ill of; defame; slander.	verb (used with object)	16	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
vindicate	to clear, as from an accusation, imputation, suspicion, or the like	verb (used with object)	18	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
vindictive	disposed or inclined to revenge; vengeful	adjective	23	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
vintner	a person who makes wine or sells wines.	noun	13	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
violate	to break, infringe, or transgress (a law, rule, agreement, promise, instructions, etc.).	verb (used with object)	12	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
viper	any of several venomous Old World snakes of the genus Vipera, especially V. berus, a small snake common in northern Eurasia.	noun	12	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
virile	of, pertaining to, characteristic of, or befitting a man; masculine; manly	adjective	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
virtual	being such in power, force, or effect, though not actually or expressly such	adjective	13	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
virtue	moral excellence; goodness; righteousness.	noun	11	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
virtuoso	a person who has special knowledge or skill in a field.	noun	13	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
virulent	actively poisonous; intensely noxious	adjective	15	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
virus	an ultramicroscopic (20 to 300 nm in diameter), metabolically inert, infectious agent that replicates only within the cells of living hosts, mainly bacteria, plants, and animals	noun	10	5-All English speakers likely know this word
visage	the face, usually with reference to shape, features, expression, etc.; countenance.	noun	12	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
visceral	of or relating to the 	adjective	16	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
viscid	having a glutinous consistency; sticky; adhesive; viscous.	adjective	14	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
viscous	of a glutinous nature or consistency; sticky; thick; adhesive.	adjective	15	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
vise	any of various devices, usually having two jaws that may be brought together or separated by means of a screw, lever, or the like, used to hold an object firmly while work is being done on it.	noun	8	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
vision	the act or power of sensing with the eyes; sight.	noun	11	5-All English speakers likely know this word
visionary	given to or characterized by fanciful, not presently workable, or unpractical ideas, views, or schemes	adjective	16	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
vital	of or relating to life	adjective	10	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
vitiate	to impair the quality of; make faulty; spoil.	verb (used with object)	11	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
vitreous	of the nature of or resembling glass, as in transparency, brittleness, hardness, glossiness, etc.	adjective	13	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
vitriolic	of, relating to, or resembling 	adjective	17	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
vituperative	characterized by or of the nature of vituperation	adjective	24	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
vivacious	lively; animated; gay	adjective	21	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
vivid	strikingly bright or intense, as color, light, etc.	adjective	14	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
vivisection	the action of cutting into or dissecting a living body.	noun	23	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
vixen	a female fox.	noun	17	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
vociferous	crying out noisily; clamorous.	adjective	21	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
vogue	something in fashion, as at a particular time	noun	12	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
volatile	evaporating rapidly; passing off readily in the form of vapor	adjective	14	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
volition	the act of willing, choosing, or resolving; exercise of willing	noun	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
volley	the simultaneous discharge of a number of missiles or firearms.	noun	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
voluble	characterized by a ready and continuous flow of words; fluent; glib; talkative	adjective	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
voluminous	forming, filling, or writing a large 	adjective	21	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
voluptuous	full of, characterized by, or ministering to indulgence in luxury, pleasure, and sensuous enjoyment	adjective	21	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
voodoo	Also, 	noun	11	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
voracious	craving or consuming large quantities of food	adjective	17	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
vortex	a whirling mass of water, especially one in which a force of suction operates, as a whirlpool.	noun	17	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
vouch	to support as being true, certain, reliable, etc. (usually followed by for)	verb (used without object)	15	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
vouchsafe	to grant or give, as by favor, graciousness, or condescension	verb (used with object)	22	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
voyeur	a person who engages in 	noun	13	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
vulgar	characterized by ignorance of or lack of good breeding or taste	adjective	14	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
vulnerable	capable of or susceptible to being wounded or hurt, as by a weapon	adjective	21	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
vulpine	of or resembling a fox.	adjective	17	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
vulture	any of several large, primarily carrion-eating Old World birds of prey of the family Accipitridae, often having a naked head and less powerful feet than those of the related hawks and eagles.	noun	14	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
vying	competing; contending	adjective	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
wade	to walk in water, when partially immersed	verb (used without object)	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
waffle	a batter cake with a pattern of deep indentations on each side, formed by the gridlike design on each of the two hinged parts of the metal appliance (waffle iron) in which the cake is baked.	noun	16	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
waft	to carry lightly and smoothly through the air or over water	verb (used with object)	10	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
wag	to move from side to side, forward and backward, or up and down, especially rapidly and repeatedly	verb (used with object)	8	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
wage	Often, wages. money that is paid or received for work or services, as by the hour, day, or week.  Compare  	noun	9	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
waggish	like a 	adjective	16	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
waif	a person, especially a child, who has no home or friends.	noun	10	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
waive	to refrain from claiming or insisting on; give up; forgo	verb (used with object)	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
wake	to become roused from sleep; awake; awaken; waken (often followed by up).	verb (used without object)	11	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
wallow	to roll about or lie in water, snow, mud, dust, or the like, as for refreshment	verb (used without object)	14	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
wan	of an unnatural or sickly pallor; pallid; lacking color	adjective	7	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
wanderlust	a strong, innate desire to rove or travel about.	noun	17	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
wane	to decrease in strength, intensity, etc.	verb (used without object)	8	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
wangle	to bring about, accomplish, or obtain by scheming or underhand methods	verb (used with object)	13	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
wanton	done, shown, used, etc., maliciously or unjustifiably	adjective	11	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
warble	to sing or whistle with trills, quavers, or melodic embellishments	verb (used without object)	13	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
ward	a division or district of a city or town, as for administrative or political purposes.	noun	8	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
warp	to bend or twist out of shape, especially from a straight or flat form, as timbers or flooring.	verb (used with object)	10	10-All English speakers likely know this word
warrant	authorization, sanction, or justification.	noun	11	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
warranted	authorization, sanction, or justification.	noun	14	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
warranty	an act or an instance of warranting; assurance; authorization; warrant.	noun	14	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
warren	a place where rabbits breed or abound.	noun	10	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
wary	watchful; being on one's guard against danger.	adjective	9	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
wastrel	a wasteful person; spendthrift.	noun	11	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
waver	to sway to and fro; flutter	verb (used without object)	12	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
wax	Also called 	noun	13	5-All English speakers likely know this word
waylay	to intercept or attack from ambush, as in order to rob, seize, or slay.	verb (used with object)	14	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
wean	to accustom (a child or young animal) to food other than its mother's milk; cause to lose the need to suckle or turn to the mother for food.	verb (used with object)	8	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
weary	physically or mentally exhausted by hard work, exertion, strain, etc.; fatigued; tired	adjective	10	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
weather	the state of the atmosphere with respect to wind, temperature, cloudiness, moisture, pressure, etc.	noun	12	8-All English speakers likely know this word
weird	involving or suggesting the supernatural; unearthly or uncanny	adjective	9	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
well-bred	well brought up; properly trained and educated	adjective	9	67-Few English speakers likely know this word
welt	a ridge or wale on the surface of the body, as from a blow of a stick or whip.	noun	8	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
welter	to roll, toss, or heave, as waves or the sea.	verb (used without object)	10	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
welter	to roll, toss, or heave, as waves or the sea.	verb (used without object)	10	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
wheedle	to endeavor to influence (a person) by smooth, flattering, or beguiling words or acts	verb (used with object)	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
whelp	the young of the dog, or of the wolf, bear, lion, tiger, seal, etc.	noun	14	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
whine	to utter a low, usually nasal, complaining cry or sound, as from uneasiness, discontent, peevishness, etc.	verb (used without object)	11	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
wholesome	conducive to moral or general well-being; salutary; beneficial	adjective	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
wiggle	to move or go with short, quick, irregular movements from side to side	verb (used without object)	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
willowy	pliant; lithe.	adjective	17	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
wretch	a deplorably unfortunate or unhappy person.	noun	14	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
wring	to twist forcibly	verb (used with object)	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
wrinkle	a small furrow or crease in the skin, especially of the face, as from aging or frowning.	noun	16	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
wrongheaded		adjective	21	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
=======
abase	to reduce or lower, as in rank, office, reputation, or estimation; humble; degrade.	verb (used with object)	8	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
abash	to destroy the self-confidence, poise, or self-possession of; disconcert; make ashamed or embarrassed	verb (used with object)	10	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
abate	to reduce in amount, degree, intensity, etc.; lessen; diminish	verb (used with object)	8	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
abbreviate	to shorten (a word or phrase) by omitting letters, substituting shorter forms, etc., so that the shortened form can represent the whole word or phrase, as ft. for foot, ab. for about, R.I. for Rhode Island, NW for Northwest, or Xn for Christian.	verb (used with object)	20	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
abdicate	to renounce or relinquish a throne, right, power, claim, responsibility, or the like, especially in a formal manner	verb (used without object)	15	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
aberrant	departing from the right, normal, or usual course.	adjective	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
aberration	the act of departing from the right, normal, or usual course.	noun	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
abet	to encourage, support, or countenance by aid or approval, usually in wrongdoing	verb (used with object)	7	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
abeyance	temporary inactivity, cessation, or suspension	noun	17	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
abhor	to regard with extreme repugnance or aversion; detest utterly; loathe; abominate.	verb (used with object)	10	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
abide	to remain; continue; stay	verb (used without object)	9	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
abject	utterly hopeless, miserable, humiliating, or wretched	adjective	21	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
abjure	to renounce, repudiate, or retract, especially with formal solemnity; recant	verb (used with object)	19	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
ablution	a cleansing with water or other liquid, especially as a religious ritual.	noun	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
abnegate	to refuse or deny oneself (some rights, conveniences, etc.); reject; renounce.	verb (used with object)	14	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
abode	a place in which a person resides; residence; dwelling; habitation; home.	noun	9	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
abolish	to do away with; put an end to; annul; make void	verb (used with object)	13	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
abominable	repugnantly hateful; detestable; loathsome	adjective	21	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
abominate	to regard with intense aversion or loathing; abhor.	verb (used with object)	16	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
aboriginal	of, relating to, or typical of 	adjective	17	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
abortive	failing to succeed; unsuccessful	adjective	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
abrasive	any material or substance used for grinding, polishing, etc., as emery, pumice, or sandpaper.	noun	15	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
abridge	to shorten by omissions while retaining the basic contents	verb (used with object)	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
abrogate	to abolish by formal or official means; annul by an authoritative act; repeal	verb (used with object)	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
abscission	the act of cutting off; sudden termination.	noun	17	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
abscond	to depart in a sudden and secret manner, especially to avoid capture and legal prosecution	verb (used without object)	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
absolute	free from imperfection; complete; perfect	adjective	13	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
absolve	to free from guilt or blame or their consequences	verb (used with object)	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
abstain	to hold oneself back voluntarily, especially from something regarded as improper or unhealthy (usually followed by from)	verb (used without object)	11	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
abstemious	sparing or moderate in eating and drinking; temperate in diet.	adjective	17	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
abstinence	forbearance from any indulgence of appetite, especially from the use of alcoholic beverages	noun	18	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
abstract	thought of apart from concrete realities, specific objects, or actual instances	adjective	14	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
abstruse	hard to understand; recondite; esoteric	adjective	12	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
abusive	using, containing, or characterized by harshly or coarsely insulting language	adjective	15	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
abut	to be adjacent; touch or join at the edge or border (often followed by on, upon, or against)	verb (used without object)	8	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
abysmal	of or like an 	adjective	16	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
abyss	a deep, immeasurable space, gulf, or cavity; vast chasm.	noun	10	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
academic	of or relating to a college, 	adjective	18	11-All English speakers likely know this word
accede	to give consent, approval, or adherence; agree; assent; to accede to a request; to accede to the terms of a contract.	verb (used without object)	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
accelerate	to cause faster or greater activity, development, progress, advancement, etc., in	verb (used with object)	17	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
accessible	easy to approach, reach, enter, speak with, or use.	adjective	20	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
accessory	a subordinate or supplementary part, object, or the like, used mainly for convenience, attractiveness, safety, etc., as a spotlight on an automobile or a lens cover on a camera.	noun	17	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
acclaim	to welcome or salute with shouts or sounds of joy and approval; applaud	verb (used with object)	17	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
acclimate	to accustom or become accustomed to a new 	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	19	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
acclivity	an upward slope, as of ground; an ascent (opposed to 	noun	22	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
accolade	any award, honor, or laudatory notice	noun	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
accommodate	to do a kindness or a favor to; oblige	verb (used with object)	24	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
accomplice	a person who knowingly helps another in a crime or wrongdoing, often as a subordinate.	noun	26	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
accord	to be in agreement or harmony; agree.	verb (used without object)	13	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
accost	to confront boldly	verb (used with object)	12	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
accoutre		verb (used with object)	15	68-Few English speakers likely know this word
accretion	an increase by natural growth or by gradual external addition; growth in size or extent.	noun	16	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
accrue	to happen or result as a natural growth, addition, etc.	verb (used without object)	13	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
acerbity	sourness, with roughness or astringency of taste.	noun	16	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
acetic	pertaining to, derived from, or producing vinegar or 	adjective	12	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
acidulous	slightly sour.	adjective	16	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
acknowledge	to admit to be real or true; recognize the existence, truth, or fact of	verb (used with object)	26	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
acme	the highest point; summit; peak	noun	10	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
acne	an inflammatory disease of the sebaceous glands, characterized by comedones and pimples, especially on the face, back, and chest, and, in severe cases, by cysts and nodules resulting in scarring.	noun	8	10-All English speakers likely know this word
acoustics	(used with a singular verb) Physics. the branch of physics that deals with sound and sound waves.	noun	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
acquiesce	to assent tacitly; submit or comply silently or without protest; agree; consent	verb (used without object)	25	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
acquittal	the act of 	noun	23	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
acrid	sharp or biting to the taste or smell; bitterly pungent; irritating to the eyes, nose, etc.	adjective	9	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
acrimonious	caustic, stinging, or bitter in nature, speech, behavior, etc.	adjective	19	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
acrophobia	a pathological fear of heights.	noun	21	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
actuarial	Insurance. a person who computes premium rates, dividends, risks, etc., according to probabilities based on statistical records.	noun	14	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
actuary	Insurance. a person who computes premium rates, dividends, risks, etc., according to probabilities based on statistical records.	noun	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
actuate	to incite or move to action; impel; motivate	verb (used with object)	11	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
acuity	sharpness; acuteness; keenness	noun	12	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
acumen	keen insight; shrewdness	noun	14	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
acute	sharp or severe in effect; intense	adjective	9	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
adage	a traditional saying expressing a common experience or observation; proverb.	noun	8	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
adamant	utterly unyielding in attitude or opinion in spite of all appeals, urgings, etc.	adjective	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
adapt	to make suitable to requirements or conditions; adjust or modify fittingly	verb (used with object)	9	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
addendum	a thing to be added; an addition.	noun	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
addiction	the state of being enslaved to a habit or practice or to something that is psychologically or physically habit-forming, as narcotics, to such an extent that its cessation causes severe trauma.	noun	15	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
addle	to make or become confused.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	8	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
address	a speech or written statement, usually formal, directed to a particular group of persons	noun	9	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
adept	very skilled; proficient; expert	adjective	9	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
adhere	to stay attached; stick fast; cleave; cling (usually followed by to)	verb (used without object)	9	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
adherent	a person who follows or upholds a leader, cause, etc.; supporter; follower.	noun	12	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
adjacent	lying near, close, or contiguous; adjoining; neighboring	adjective	22	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
adjunct	something added to another thing but not essential to it.	noun	22	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
adjuration	an earnest request; entreaty.	noun	22	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
adjutant	Military. a staff officer who assists the commanding officer in issuing orders.	noun	20	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
admonish	to caution, advise, or counsel against something.	verb (used with object)	15	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
adorn	to decorate or add beauty to, as by ornaments	verb (used with object)	7	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
adroit	expert or nimble in the use of the hands or body.	adjective	7	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
adulate	to show excessive admiration or devotion to; flatter or admire servilely.	verb (used with object)	10	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
adulterate	to debase or make impure by adding inferior materials or elements; use cheaper, inferior, or less desirable goods in the production of (any professedly genuine article)	verb (used with object)	13	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
advent	a coming into place, view, or being; arrival	noun	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
adventitious	associated with something by chance rather than as an integral part; extrinsic.	adjective	19	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
adversary	a person, group, or force that opposes or attacks; opponent; enemy; foe.	noun	16	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
adverse	unfavorable or antagonistic in purpose or effect	adjective	12	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
adversity		noun	16	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
advert	to remark or comment; refer (usually followed by to)	verb (used without object)	11	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
advocacy	the act of pleading for, supporting, or recommending; active espousal	noun	21	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
advocate	to speak or write in favor of; support or urge by argument; recommend publicly	verb (used with object)	16	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
aegis	Classical Mythology. the shield or breastplate of Zeus or Athena, bearing at its center the head of the Gorgon.	noun	7	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
aerie	the nest of a bird of prey, as an eagle or a hawk.	noun	5	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
aesthetic	relating to the philosophy of 	adjective	14	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
affable	pleasantly easy to approach and to talk to; friendly; cordial; warmly polite	adjective	17	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
affected	acted upon; influenced.	adjective	18	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
affidavit	a written declaration upon oath made before an authorized official.	noun	20	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
affiliation	the act of 	noun	19	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
affinity	a natural liking for or attraction to a person, thing, idea, etc.	noun	17	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
affirmation	the act or an instance of 	noun	21	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
affliction	a state of pain, distress, or grief; misery	noun	21	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
affluence	abundance of money, property, and other material goods; riches; wealth.	noun	21	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
affront	a personally offensive act or word; deliberate act or display of disrespect; intentional slight; insult	noun	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
afterlife	Also called 	noun	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
agape	with the mouth wide open, as in wonder, surprise, or eagerness	adverb, adjective	10	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
agenda	a list, plan, outline, or the like, of things to be done, matters to be acted or voted upon, etc.	noun	10	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
agglomeration	a jumbled cluster or mass of varied parts.	noun	22	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
aggrandize	to widen in scope; increase in size or intensity; enlarge; extend.	verb (used with object)	25	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
aggregate	formed by the conjunction or collection of particulars into a whole mass or sum; total; combined	adjective	15	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
aghast	struck with overwhelming shock or amazement; filled with sudden fright or horror	adjective	10	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
agility	the power of moving quickly and easily; nimbleness	noun	12	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
agitate	to move or force into violent, irregular action	verb (used with object)	9	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
agnostic	a person who holds that the existence of the ultimate cause, as God, and the essential nature of things are unknown and unknowable, or that human knowledge is limited to experience.  Synonyms	noun	14	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
agog	highly excited by eagerness, curiosity, anticipation, etc.	adjective	8	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
agrarian	relating to land, land tenure, or the division of landed property	adjective	11	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
airy	open to a free current of fresh air; breezy	adjective	6	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
alacrity	cheerful readiness, promptness, or willingness	noun	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
alchemy	a form of chemistry and speculative philosophy practiced in the Middle Ages and the Renaissance and concerned principally with discovering methods for transmuting baser metals into gold and with finding a universal solvent and an elixir of life.	noun	18	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
alcove	a recess or small room adjacent to or opening out of a room	noun	14	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
alias	a false name used to conceal one's identity; an assumed name	noun	6	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
alienate	to make indifferent or hostile	verb (used with object)	10	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
alimentary	concerned with the function of nutrition; nutritive.	adjective	17	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
alimony	Law. an allowance paid to a person by that person's spouse or former spouse for maintenance, granted by a court upon a legal separation or a divorce or while action is pending.	noun	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
allay	to put (fear, doubt, suspicion, anger, etc.) to rest; calm; quiet.	verb (used with object)	9	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
allege	to assert without proof.	verb (used with object)	10	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
allegiance	the loyalty of a citizen to his or her government or of a subject to his or her sovereign.	noun	18	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
allegory	a representation of an abstract or spiritual meaning through concrete or material forms; figurative treatment of one subject under the guise of another.	noun	14	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
alleviate	to make easier to endure; lessen; mitigate	verb (used with object)	15	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
alliteration	the commencement of two or more stressed syllables of a word group either with the same consonant sound or sound group (consonantal alliteration) as in from stem to stern, or with a vowel sound that may differ from syllable to syllable (vocalic alliteration) as in each to all.  Compare  	noun	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
allocate	to set apart for a particular purpose; assign or allot	verb (used with object)	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
alloy	a substance composed of two or more metals, or of a metal or metals with a nonmetal, intimately mixed, as by fusion or electrodeposition.	noun	9	4-All English speakers likely know this word
allude	to refer casually or indirectly; make an 	verb (used without object)	10	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
allure	to attract or tempt by something flattering or desirable.	verb (used with object)	9	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
alluvial	of or relating to 	adjective	16	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
alms	money, food, or other donations given to the poor or needy; anything given as charity	noun	8	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
aloft	high up; far above the ground.	adverb	9	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
aloof	at a distance, especially in feeling or interest; apart	adverb	9	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
altercation	a heated or angry dispute; noisy argument or controversy.	noun	16	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
altruistic	unselfishly concerned for or devoted to the welfare of others (opposed to 	adjective	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
amalgam	an alloy of mercury with another metal or metals.	noun	16	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
amalgamate	to mix or merge so as to make a combination; blend; unite; combine	verb (used with object)	19	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
amass	to gather for oneself; collect as one's own	verb (used with object)	8	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
amazon	a river in N South America, flowing E from the Peruvian Andes through N Brazil to the Atlantic Ocean	noun	19	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
ambidextrous	able to use both hands equally well	adjective	27	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
ambience		noun	18	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
ambiguous	open to or having several possible meanings or interpretations; equivocal	adjective	19	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
ambivalence	uncertainty or fluctuation, especially when caused by inability to make a choice or by a simultaneous desire to say or do two opposite or conflicting things.	noun	26	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
amble	to go at a slow, easy pace; stroll; saunter	verb (used without object)	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
ambrosia	Classical Mythology. the food of the gods.  Compare  	noun	14	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
ambulatory	of, relating to, or capable of walking	adjective	20	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
ambush	an act or instance of lying concealed so as to attack by surprise	noun	15	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
ameliorate	to make or become better, more bearable, or more satisfactory; improve	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	14	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
amenable	ready or willing to answer, act, agree, or yield; open to influence, persuasion, or advice; agreeable; submissive; tractable	adjective	16	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
amend	to alter, modify, rephrase, or add to or subtract from (a motion, bill, constitution, etc.) by formal procedure	verb (used with object)	10	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
amenities	an agreeable way or manner; courtesy; civility	noun	13	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
amiable	having or showing pleasant, good-natured personal qualities; affable	adjective	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
amicable	characterized by or showing goodwill; friendly; peaceable	adjective	18	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
amiss	out of the right or proper course, order, or condition; improperly; wrongly; astray	adverb	8	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
amity	friendship; peaceful harmony.	noun	10	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
amnesia	loss of a large block of interrelated memories; complete or partial loss of memory caused by brain injury, shock, etc.	noun	11	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
amnesty	a general pardon for offenses, especially political offenses, against a government, often granted before any trial or conviction.	noun	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
amuck	mad with murderous frenzy.	adjective	16	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
amoral	not involving questions of right or wrong; without 	adjective	10	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
amorous	inclined or disposed to love, especially sexual love	adjective	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
amorphous	lacking definite form; having no specific shape; formless	adjective	18	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
amphibian	any cold-blooded vertebrate of the class Amphibia, comprising frogs and toads, newts and salamanders, and caecilians, the larvae being typically aquatic, breathing by gills, and the adults being typically semiterrestrial, breathing by lungs and through the moist, glandular skin.	noun	21	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
amphitheater	an oval or round building with tiers of seats around a central open area, as those used in ancient Rome for gladiatorial contests.	noun	22	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
ample	fully sufficient or more than adequate for the purpose or needs; plentiful; enough	adjective	12	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
amplify	to make larger, greater, or stronger; enlarge; extend.	verb (used with object)	19	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
amputate	to cut off (all or part of a limb or digit of the body), as by surgery.	verb (used with object)	15	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
amulet	a small object worn to ward off evil, harm, or illness or to bring good fortune; protecting charm.	noun	11	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
anachronism	something or someone that is not in its correct historical or chronological time, especially a thing or person that belongs to an earlier time	noun	21	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
analgesia	absence of sense of pain.	noun	13	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
analgesic	a remedy that relieves or allays pain.	noun	16	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
analogous	having 	adjective	14	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
analogy	a similarity between like features of two things, on which a comparison may be based	noun	13	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
anarchist	a person who advocates or believes in 	noun	15	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
anarchy	a state of society without government or law.	noun	15	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
anathema	a person or thing detested or loathed	noun	14	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
ancestry	family or 	noun	14	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
anchor	any of various devices dropped by a chain, cable, or rope to the bottom of a body of water for preventing or restricting the motion of a vessel or other floating object, typically having broad, hooklike arms that bury themselves in the bottom to provide a firm hold.	noun	12	11-All English speakers likely know this word
ancillary	subordinate; subsidiary.	adjective	17	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
anecdote	a short account of a particular incident or event, especially of an interesting or amusing nature.	noun	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
anemia	Pathology. a quantitative deficiency of the hemoglobin, often accompanied by a reduced number of red blood cells and causing pallor, weakness, and breathlessness.	noun	10	9-All English speakers likely know this word
anesthetic	a substance that produces 	noun	16	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
anguish	excruciating or acute distress, suffering, or pain	noun	13	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
angular	having an 	adjective	12	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
animadversion	an unfavorable or censorious comment	noun	23	67-Few English speakers likely know this word
animated	full of life, action, or spirit; lively; vigorous	adjective	13	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
animosity	a feeling of strong dislike, ill will, or enmity that tends to display itself in action	noun	15	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
animus	strong dislike or enmity; hostile attitude; animosity.	noun	11	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
annals	a record of events, especially a yearly record, usually in chronological order.	noun	9	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
anneal	to heat (glass, earthenware, metals, etc.) to remove or prevent internal stress.	verb (used with object)	9	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
annex	to attach, append, or add, especially to something larger or more important.	verb (used with object)	14	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
annihilate	to reduce to utter ruin or nonexistence; destroy utterly	verb (used with object)	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
annotate	to supply with critical or explanatory 	verb (used with object)	10	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
annuity	a specified income payable at stated intervals for a fixed or a contingent period, often for the recipient's life, in consideration of a stipulated premium paid either in prior installment payments or in a single payment.	noun	12	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
annul	(especially of laws or other established rules, usages, etc.) to make void or null; abolish; cancel; invalidate	verb (used with object)	9	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
anodyne	a medicine that relieves or allays pain.	noun	12	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
anoint	to rub or sprinkle on; apply an unguent, ointment, or oily liquid to.	verb (used with object)	8	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
anomalous	deviating from or inconsistent with the common order, form, or rule; 	adjective	15	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
anomaly	a deviation from the common rule, type, arrangement, or form.  Synonyms	noun	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
anonymity	the state or quality of being 	noun	18	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
antagonism	an active hostility or opposition, as between unfriendly or conflicting groups	noun	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
antecede	to go before, in time, order, rank, etc.; precede	verb (used with object)	13	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
antecedents	preceding; prior	adjective	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
antediluvian	of or belonging to the period before the Flood. Gen. 7, 8.	adjective	21	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
anthem	a song, as of praise, devotion, or patriotism	noun	12	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
anthology	a book or other collection of selected writings by various authors, usually in the same literary form, of the same period, or on the same subject	noun	17	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
anthropoid	resembling humans.	adjective	17	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
anthropologist	a person who specializes in 	noun	23	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
anthropomorphic	ascribing human form or attributes to a being or thing not human, especially to a deity.	adjective	32	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
anticlimax	an event, conclusion, statement, etc., that is far less important, powerful, or striking than expected.	noun	25	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
antidote	a medicine or other remedy for counteracting the effects of poison, disease, etc.	noun	10	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
antipathy	a natural, basic, or habitual repugnance; aversion.	noun	17	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
antiquated	continued from, resembling, or adhering to the past; old-fashioned	adjective	22	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
antiseptic	pertaining to or affecting 	adjective	17	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
antithesis	opposition; contrast	noun	13	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
anvil	a heavy iron block with a smooth face, frequently of steel, on which metals, usually heated until soft, are hammered into desired shapes.	noun	11	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
apathy	absence or suppression of passion, emotion, or excitement.	noun	13	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
ape	any of a group of anthropoid primates characterized by long arms, a broad chest, and the absence of a tail, comprising the family Pongidae (great ape) which includes the chimpanzee, gorilla, and orangutan, and the family Hylobatidae (lesser ape) which includes the gibbon and siamang.	noun	6	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
aperture	an opening, as a hole, slit, crack, gap, etc.	noun	12	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
apex	the tip, point, or vertex; summit.	noun	14	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
aphasia	the loss of a previously held ability to speak or understand spoken or written language, due to disease or injury of the brain.	noun	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
apiarist	a person who keeps an 	noun	11	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
apiary	a place in which a colony or colonies of bees are kept, as a stand or shed for beehives or a bee house containing a number of beehives.	noun	11	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
apiculture	beekeeping, especially on a commercial scale for the sale of honey.	noun	19	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
aplomb	imperturbable self-possession, poise, or assurance.	noun	16	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
apocalyptic	of or like an 	adjective	26	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
apocryphal	of doubtful authorship or authenticity.	adjective	24	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
apogee	Astronomy. the point in the orbit of a heavenly body, especially the moon, or of a man-made satellite at which it is farthest from the earth.  Compare  	noun	11	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
apolitical	not 	adjective	18	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
apologist	a person who makes a defense in speech or writing of a belief, idea, etc.	noun	15	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
apoplexy		noun	24	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
apostate	a person who forsakes his religion, cause, party, etc.	noun	11	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
apothecary	a druggist; a pharmacist.	noun	20	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
apothegm	a short, pithy, instructive saying; a terse remark or aphorism.	noun	18	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
apotheosis	the elevation or exaltation of a person to the rank of a god.	noun	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
appall	to fill or overcome with horror, consternation, or fear; dismay	verb (used with object)	14	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
apparent	readily seen; exposed to sight; open to view; visible	adjective	15	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
apparition	a supernatural appearance of a person or thing, especially a ghost; a specter or phantom; wraith	noun	17	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
appease	to bring to a state of peace, quiet, ease, calm, or contentment; pacify; soothe	verb (used with object)	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
appellation	a name, title, or designation.	noun	20	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
append	to add as a supplement, accessory, or 	verb (used with object)	14	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
application	the act of putting to a special use or purpose	noun	22	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
apposite	suitable; well-adapted; pertinent; relevant; apt	adjective	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
appraise	to estimate the monetary value of; determine the worth of; assess	verb (used with object)	14	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
appreciate	to be grateful or thankful for	verb (used with object)	19	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
apprehend	to take into custody; arrest by legal warrant or authority	verb (used with object)	19	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
apprehensive	uneasy or fearful about something that might happen	adjective	25	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
apprise	to give notice to; inform; advise (often followed by of)	verb (used with object)	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
approbation	approval; commendation.	noun	21	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
appropriate	suitable or fitting for a particular purpose, person, occasion, etc.	adjective	20	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
appurtenances	something subordinate to another, more important thing; adjunct; accessory.	noun	25	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
apropos	fitting; at the right time; to the purpose; opportunely.	adverb	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
aptitude	capability; ability; innate or acquired capacity for something; talent	noun	13	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
aquiline	(of the nose) shaped like an eagle's beak; hooked.	adjective	20	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
arable	capable of producing crops; suitable for farming; suited to the plow and for tillage	adjective	10	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
arbiter	a person empowered to decide matters at issue; judge; umpire.	noun	10	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
arbitrary	subject to individual will or judgment without restriction; contingent solely upon one's discretion	adjective	14	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
arbitrate	to decide as 	verb (used with object)	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
arboreal	of or relating to trees; treelike.	adjective	12	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
arboretum	a plot of land on which many different trees or shrubs are grown for study or display.	noun	16	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
arcade	Architecture.    a series of arches supported on piers or columns.    an arched, roofed-in gallery.      Compare    	noun	10	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
arcane	known or understood by very few; mysterious; secret; obscure; esoteric	adjective	10	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
archaeology	the scientific study of historic or prehistoric peoples and their cultures by analysis of their artifacts, inscriptions, monuments, and other such remains, especially those that have been excavated.	noun	21	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
archaic	marked by the characteristics of an earlier period; antiquated	adjective	15	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
archetype	the original pattern or model from which all things of the same kind are copied or on which they are based; a model or first form; prototype.	noun	19	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
archipelago	a large group or chain of islands	noun	22	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
archives	Usually, archives. documents or records relating to the activities, business dealings, etc., of a person, family, corporation, association, community, or nation.	noun	17	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
ardor	great warmth of feeling; fervor; passion	noun	6	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
arduous	requiring great exertion; laborious; difficult	adjective	10	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
argot	a specialized idiomatic vocabulary peculiar to a particular class or group of people, especially that of an underworld group, devised for private communication and identification	noun	7	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
aria	an 	noun	4	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
arid	being without moisture; extremely dry; parched	adjective	5	6-All English speakers likely know this word
aristocracy	a class of persons holding exceptional rank and privileges, especially the hereditary nobility.	noun	19	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
armada	Also called Invincible Armada, Spanish Armada. the fleet sent against England by Philip II of Spain in 1588. It was defeated by the English navy and later dispersed and wrecked by storms.	noun	10	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
aromatic	having an 	adjective	14	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
arraign	to call or bring before a court to answer to an indictment.	verb (used with object)	10	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
array	to place in proper or desired order; marshal	verb (used with object)	7	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
arrhythmic	any disturbance in the rhythm of the heartbeat.	noun	22	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
arrogance	offensive display of superiority or self-importance; overbearing pride.	noun	15	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
arroyo	(chiefly in southwest U.S.) a small steep-sided watercourse or gulch with a nearly flat floor	noun	8	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
arsenal	a place of storage or a magazine containing arms and military equipment for land or naval service.	noun	9	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
artery	Anatomy. a blood vessel that conveys blood from the heart to any part of the body.	noun	8	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
artful	slyly crafty or cunning; deceitful; tricky	adjective	11	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
articulate	uttered clearly in distinct syllables.	adjective	15	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
artifacts	any object made by human beings, especially with a view to subsequent use.	noun	14	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
artifice	a clever trick or stratagem; a cunning, crafty device or expedient; wile.	noun	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
artisan	a person skilled in an applied art; a craftsperson.	noun	8	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
artless	free from deceit, cunning, or craftiness; ingenuous	adjective	8	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
ascendancy	the state of being in the 	noun	21	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
ascertain	to find out definitely; learn with certainty or assurance; determine	verb (used with object)	13	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
ascetic	a person who dedicates his or her life to a pursuit of contemplative ideals and practices extreme self-denial or self-mortification for religious reasons.	noun	13	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
ascribe	to credit or assign, as to a cause or source; attribute; impute	verb (used with object)	13	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
aseptic	free from the living germs of disease, fermentation, or putrefaction.	adjective	13	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
ashen	ash-colored; gray.	adjective	8	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
asinine	foolish, unintelligent, or silly; stupid	adjective	9	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
askance	with suspicion, mistrust, or disapproval	adverb	15	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
askew	to one side; out of line; in a crooked position; awry	adverb	12	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
asperity	harshness or sharpness of tone, temper, or manner; severity; acrimony	noun	13	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
aspersion	a damaging or derogatory remark or criticism; slander	noun	13	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
aspirant	a person who 	noun	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
aspire	to long, aim, or seek ambitiously; be eagerly desirous, especially for something great or of high value (usually followed by to, after, or an infinitive)	verb (used without object)	9	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
assail	to attack vigorously or violently; assault.	verb (used with object)	7	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
assay	to examine or analyze	verb (used with object)	7	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
assent	to agree or concur; subscribe to (often followed by to)	verb (used without object)	7	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
assert	to state with assurance, confidence, or force; state strongly or positively; affirm; aver	verb (used with object)	6	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
assiduous	constant; unremitting	adjective	12	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
assimilate	to take in and incorporate as one's own; absorb	verb (used with object)	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
assuage	to make milder or less severe; relieve; ease; mitigate	verb (used with object)	10	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
assumption	something taken for granted; a supposition	noun	18	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
assurance	a positive declaration intended to give confidence	noun	14	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
asteroid	Also called 	noun	9	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
astigmatism	Also called astigmia          	noun	19	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
astral	pertaining to or proceeding from the stars; stellar; star-shaped.	adjective	7	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
astringent	Medicine/Medical. contracting; constrictive; styptic.	adjective	14	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
astronomical	of, relating to, or connected with 	adjective	20	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
astute	of keen penetration or discernment; sagacious	adjective	7	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
asunder	into separate parts; in or into pieces	adverb, adjective	10	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
asylum	(especially formerly) an institution for the maintenance and care of the mentally ill, orphans, or other persons requiring specialized assistance.	noun	13	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
asymmetric	not identical on both sides of a central line; unsymmetrical; lacking symmetry	adjective	21	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
atavism	Biology.    the reappearance in an individual of characteristics of some remote ancestor that have been absent in intervening generations.    an individual embodying such a reversion.  	noun	14	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
atheistic	pertaining to or characteristic of 	adjective	14	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
atone	to make amends or reparation, as for an offense or a crime, or for an offender (usually followed by for)	verb (used without object)	6	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
atrocity	the quality or state of being 	noun	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
atrophy	Also, atrophia          	noun	14	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
attentive	characterized by or giving 	adjective	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
attenuate	to weaken or reduce in force, intensity, effect, quantity, or value	verb (used with object)	11	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
attest	to bear witness to; certify; declare to be correct, true, or genuine; declare the truth of, in words or writing, especially affirm in an official capacity	verb (used with object)	6	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
attire	to dress, array, or adorn, especially for special occasions, ceremonials, etc.	verb (used with object)	6	8-All English speakers likely know this word
attribute	to regard as resulting from a specified cause; consider as caused by something indicated (usually followed by to)	verb (used with object)	13	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
attrition	a reduction or decrease in numbers, size, or strength	noun	10	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
atypical	not 	adjective	17	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
audacious	extremely bold or daring; recklessly brave; fearless	adjective	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
audit	an official examination and verification of accounts and records, especially of financial accounts.	noun	7	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
augment	to make larger; enlarge in size, number, strength, or extent; increase	verb (used with object)	14	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
augury	the art or practice of an 	noun	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
august	inspiring reverence or admiration; of supreme dignity or grandeur; majestic	adjective	10	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
aureole	a radiance surrounding the head or the whole figure in the representation of a sacred personage.	noun	9	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
auroral	of or like the dawn.	adjective	9	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
auspicious	promising success; propitious; opportune; favorable	adjective	18	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
austere	severe in manner or appearance; uncompromising; strict; forbidding	adjective	8	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
authenticate	to establish as genuine.	verb (used with object)	19	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
authoritarian	favoring complete obedience or subjection to 	adjective	17	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
authoritative	having due 	adjective	20	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
autocratic	pertaining to or of the nature of 	adjective	17	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
automaton	a mechanical figure or contrivance constructed to act as if by its own motive power; robot.	noun	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
autonomous	Government.    self-governing; independent; subject to its own laws only.    pertaining to an 	adjective	16	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
autopsy	inspection and dissection of a body after death, as for determination of the cause of death; postmortem examination.	noun	13	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
auxiliary	additional; supplementary; reserve	adjective	20	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
avalanche	a large mass of snow, ice, etc., detached from a mountain slope and sliding or falling suddenly downward.	noun	20	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
avantgarde	the advance group in any field, especially in the visual, literary, or musical arts, whose works are characterized chiefly by unorthodox and experimental methods.	noun	0	74-Few English speakers likely know this word
avarice	insatiable greed for riches; inordinate, miserly desire to gain and hoard wealth.	noun	14	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
avenge	to take 	verb (used with object)	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
aver	to assert or affirm with confidence; declare in a positive or peremptory manner.	verb (used with object)	8	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
averse	having a strong feeling of opposition, antipathy, repugnance, etc.; opposed	adjective	10	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
aversion	a strong feeling of dislike, opposition, repugnance, or antipathy (usually followed by to)	noun	13	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
avert	to turn away or aside	verb (used with object)	9	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
aviary	a large cage or a house or enclosure in which birds are kept.	noun	12	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
avid	showing great enthusiasm for or interest in	adjective	9	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
avocation	something a person does in addition to a principal occupation, especially for pleasure; hobby	noun	17	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
avow	to declare frankly or openly; own; acknowledge; confess; admit	verb (used with object)	11	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
avuncular	of, relating to, or characteristic of an 	adjective	20	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
awe	an overwhelming feeling of reverence, admiration, fear, etc., produced by that which is grand, sublime, extremely powerful, or the like	noun	6	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
awful	extremely bad; unpleasant; ugly	adjective	13	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
awl	a pointed instrument for piercing small holes in leather, wood, etc.	noun	7	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
awry	with a turn or twist to one side; askew	adverb, adjective	9	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
axiom	a self-evident truth that requires no proof.	noun	15	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
azure	of or having a light, purplish shade of blue, like that of a clear and unclouded sky.	adjective	15	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
babble	to utter sounds or words imperfectly, indistinctly, or without meaning.	verb (used without object)	16	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
bacchanal	a follower of Bacchus.	noun	22	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
Bacchanalia	(sometimes used with a plural verb) a festival in honor of Bacchus.  Compare  	noun	24	68-Few English speakers likely know this word
bacchanalian	(sometimes used with a plural verb) a festival in honor of Bacchus.  Compare  	noun	26	68-Few English speakers likely know this word
backslide	to relapse into bad habits, sinful behavior, or undesirable activities.	verb (used without object)	21	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
badger	any of various burrowing, carnivorous mammals of the family Mustelidae, as Taxidea taxus, of North America, and Meles meles, of Europe and Asia.	noun	12	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
badinage	light, playful banter or raillery.	noun	15	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
baffle	to confuse, bewilder, or perplex	verb (used with object)	16	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
bait	food, or some substitute, used as a lure in fishing, trapping, etc.	noun	7	10-All English speakers likely know this word
baleful	full of menacing or malign influences; pernicious.	adjective	16	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
balk	to stop, as at an obstacle, and refuse to proceed or to do something specified (usually followed by at)	verb (used without object)	12	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
ballast	Nautical. any heavy material carried temporarily or permanently in a vessel to provide desired draft and stability.	noun	12	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
balm	any of various oily, fragrant, resinous substances, often of medicinal value, exuding from certain plants, especially tropical trees of the genus Commiphora.	noun	11	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
balmy	mild and refreshing; soft; soothing	adjective	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
banal	devoid of freshness or originality; hackneyed; trite	adjective	10	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
bandy	to pass from one to another or back and forth; give and take; trade; exchange	verb (used with object)	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
bane	a person or thing that ruins or spoils	noun	8	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
bank	a long pile or heap; mass	noun	12	4-All English speakers likely know this word
bantering	an exchange of light, playful, teasing remarks; good-natured raillery.	noun	16	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
bar	a relatively long, evenly shaped piece of some solid substance, as metal or wood, used as a guard or obstruction or for some mechanical purpose	noun	6	4-All English speakers likely know this word
barb	a point or pointed part projecting backward from a main point, as of a fishhook or arrowhead.	noun	10	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
bard	(formerly) a person who composed and recited epic or heroic poems, often while playing the harp, lyre, or the like.	noun	8	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
barefaced	with the face uncovered.	adjective	19	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
bargain	an advantageous purchase, especially one acquired at less than the usual cost	noun	13	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
baroque	(often initial capital letter) of or relating to a style of architecture and art originating in Italy in the early 17th century and variously prevalent in Europe and the New World for a century and a half, characterized by free and sculptural use of the classical orders and ornament, by forms in elevation and plan suggesting movement, and by dramatic effect in which architecture, painting, sculpture, and the decorative arts often worked to combined effect.	adjective	20	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
barrage	Military. a heavy barrier of artillery fire to protect one's own advancing or retreating troops or to stop the advance of enemy troops.	noun	12	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
barrister	(in England) a lawyer who is a member of one of the Inns of Court and who has the privilege of pleading in the higher courts.  Compare  	noun	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
barterer	to trade by exchange of commodities rather than by the use of money.	verb (used without object)	9	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
base	the bottom support of anything; that on which a thing stands or rests	noun	7	6-All English speakers likely know this word
bask	to lie in or be exposed to a pleasant warmth	verb (used without object)	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
bastard	a person born of unmarried parents; an illegitimate child.	noun	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
bastion	Fortification. a projecting portion of a rampart or fortification that forms an irregular pentagon attached at the base to the main work.	noun	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
bate	to moderate or restrain	verb (used with object)	7	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
battalion	Military. a ground force unit composed of a headquarters and two or more companies or similar units.	noun	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
bauble	a showy, usually cheap, ornament; trinket; gewgaw.	noun	14	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
bawdy	indecent; lewd; obscene	adjective	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
bearing	the manner in which one conducts or carries oneself, including posture and gestures	noun	13	11-All English speakers likely know this word
beatific	bestowing bliss, blessings, happiness, or the like	adjective	17	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
beatitude	supreme blessedness; exalted happiness.	noun	14	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
bedizen	to dress or adorn in a showy, gaudy, or tasteless manner.	verb (used with object)	21	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
bedraggle	to make limp and soiled, as with rain or dirt.	verb (used with object)	18	66-Few English speakers likely know this word
beeline	a direct route traveled quickly (usually in the phrase make a beeline for)	noun	12	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
befuddle	to confuse, as with glib statements or arguments	verb (used with object)	18	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
beget	(especially of a male parent) to procreate or generate (offspring).	verb (used with object)	10	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
begrudge	to envy or resent the pleasure or good fortune of (someone)	verb (used with object)	17	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
beguile	to influence by trickery, flattery, etc.; mislead; delude.	verb (used with object)	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
behemoth	an animal, perhaps the hippopotamus, mentioned in Job 40	noun	18	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
beholden	obligated; indebted	adjective	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
behoove	to be necessary or proper for, as for moral or ethical considerations; be incumbent on	verb (used with object)	16	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
belabor	to explain, worry about, or work at (something) repeatedly or more than is necessary	verb (used with object)	14	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
belated	coming or being after the customary, useful, or expected time	adjective	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
beleaguer	to surround with military forces.	verb (used with object)	16	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
belie	to show to be false; contradict	verb (used with object)	9	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
belittle	to regard or portray as 	verb (used with object)	13	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
bellicose	inclined or eager to fight; aggressively hostile; belligerent; pugnacious.	adjective	17	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
belligerent	warlike; given to waging war.	adjective	19	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
bemoan	to express distress or grief over; lament	verb (used with object)	13	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
bemused	bewildered or confused.	adjective	15	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
benediction	an utterance of good wishes.	noun	20	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
benefactor	a person who confers a benefit; kindly helper.	noun	20	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
beneficent	doing good or causing good to be done; conferring 	adjective	21	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
beneficial	conferring benefit; advantageous; helpful	adjective	21	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
beneficiary	a person or group that receives benefits, profits, or advantages.	noun	23	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
benefit	something that is advantageous or good; an advantage	noun	14	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
benevolent	characterized by or expressing goodwill or kindly feelings	adjective	20	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
benign	having a kindly disposition; gracious	adjective	13	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
benison		noun	12	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
bent	curved; crooked	adjective	8	10-All English speakers likely know this word
bequeath	to dispose of (personal property, especially money) by last will	verb (used with object)	23	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
berate	to scold; rebuke	verb (used with object)	9	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
bereaved	(of a person) greatly saddened at being deprived by death of a loved one.	adjective	16	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
bereft	a simple past tense and past participle of 	verb	12	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
berserk	violently or destructively frenzied; wild; crazed; deranged	adjective	14	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
beseech	to implore urgently	verb (used with object)	15	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
beset	to attack on all sides; assail; harass	verb (used with object)	8	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
besiege	to lay siege to.	verb (used with object)	12	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
besmirch	to soil; tarnish; discolor.	verb (used with object)	19	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
bestial	of, relating to, or having the form of a 	adjective	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
bestow	to present as a gift; give; confer (usually followed by on or upon)	verb (used with object)	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
betoken	to give evidence of; indicate	verb (used with object)	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
betray	to deliver or expose to an enemy by treachery or disloyalty	verb (used with object)	11	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
betroth	to arrange for the marriage of; affiance (usually used in passive constructions)	verb (used with object)	12	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
bevy	a group of birds, as larks or quail, or animals, as roebuck, in close association.	noun	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
beware	to be wary, cautious, or careful of (usually used imperatively)	verb (used with object)	12	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
bewitch	to affect by witchcraft or magic; cast a spell over.	verb (used with object)	18	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
bicameral	having two branches, chambers, or houses, as a legislative body.	adjective	19	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
bicker	to engage in petulant or peevish argument; wrangle	verb (used without object)	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
bid	to command; order; direct	verb (used with object)	7	11-All English speakers likely know this word
biennial	happening every two years	adjective	14	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
bifurcated	to divide or 	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	21	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
bigot	a person who is utterly intolerant of any differing creed, belief, or opinion.	noun	10	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
bigotry	stubborn and complete intolerance of any creed, belief, or opinion that differs from one's own.	noun	14	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
bilious	Physiology, Pathology. pertaining to 	adjective	12	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
bilk	to defraud; cheat	verb (used with object)	12	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
billow	a great wave or surge of the sea.	noun	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
billowing	a great wave or surge of the sea.	noun	20	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
bivouac	a military encampment made with tents or improvised shelters, usually without shelter or protection from enemy fire.	noun	18	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
bizarre	markedly unusual in appearance, style, or general character and often involving incongruous or unexpected elements; outrageously or whimsically strange; odd	adjective	19	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
blackball	to vote against (a candidate, applicant, etc.).	verb (used with object)	25	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
blanch	to whiten by removing color; bleach	verb (used with object)	16	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
bland	pleasantly gentle or agreeable	adjective	11	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
blandishment	Often, blandishments. something, as an action or speech, that tends to flatter, coax, entice, etc.	noun	24	66-Few English speakers likely know this word
blare	to emit a loud, raucous sound	verb (used without object)	9	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
blasphemy	impious utterance or action concerning God or sacred things.	noun	23	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
blatant	brazenly obvious; flagrant	adjective	12	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
bleak	bare, desolate, and often windswept	adjective	13	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
blemish	to destroy or diminish the perfection of	verb (used with object)	16	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
blight	Plant Pathology.    the rapid and extensive discoloration, wilting, and death of plant tissues.    a disease so characterized.  	noun	14	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
blighted	Plant Pathology.    the rapid and extensive discoloration, wilting, and death of plant tissues.    a disease so characterized.  	noun	17	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
bliss	supreme happiness; utter joy or contentment	noun	9	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
blithe	joyous, merry, or gay in disposition; glad; cheerful	adjective	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
bloated	swollen; puffed up; overlarge.	adjective	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
blotch	a large, irregular spot or blot.	noun	15	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
blowhard	an exceptionally boastful and talkative person.	noun	18	74-Few English speakers likely know this word
bludgeon	a short, heavy club with one end weighted, or thicker and heavier than the other.	noun	17	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
blue	the pure color of a clear sky; the primary color between green and violet in the visible spectrum, an effect of light with a wavelength between 450 and 500 nm.	noun	9	2-All English speakers likely know this word
blues	the blues, (used with a plural verb) depressed spirits; despondency; melancholy	noun	10	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
bluff	good-naturedly direct, blunt, or frank; heartily outspoken	adjective	16	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
blunder	a gross, stupid, or careless mistake	noun	14	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
blunt	having an obtuse, thick, or dull edge or point; rounded; not sharp	adjective	11	5-All English speakers likely know this word
blurt	to utter suddenly or inadvertently; divulge impulsively or unadvisedly (usually followed by out)	verb (used with object)	10	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
blush	to redden, as from embarrassment or shame	verb (used without object)	12	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
bluster	to roar and be tumultuous, as wind.	verb (used without object)	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
bode	to be an omen of; portend	verb (used with object)	8	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
bog	wet, spongy ground with soil composed mainly of decayed vegetable matter.	noun	8	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
bogus	not genuine; counterfeit; spurious; sham.	adjective	11	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
bohemian	a native or inhabitant of 	noun	17	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
boisterous	rough and noisy; noisily jolly or rowdy; clamorous; unrestrained	adjective	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
bolster	a long, often cylindrical, cushion or pillow for a bed, sofa, etc.	noun	11	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
bolt	a movable bar or rod that when slid into a socket fastens a door, gate, etc.	noun	8	4-All English speakers likely know this word
bombardment	to attack or batter with artillery fire.	verb (used with object)	25	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
bombast	speech too pompous for an occasion; pretentious words.	noun	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
bombastic	(of speech, writing, etc.) high-sounding; high-flown; inflated; pretentious.	adjective	21	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
bookish	given or devoted to reading or study.	adjective	16	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
boon	something to be thankful for; blessing; benefit.	noun	8	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
boor	a churlish, rude, or unmannerly person.	noun	7	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
boorish	of or like a 	adjective	12	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
boost	to lift or raise by pushing from behind or below.	verb (used with object)	8	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
botch	to spoil by poor work; bungle (often followed by up)	verb (used with object)	13	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
bouillon	a clear, usually seasoned broth made by straining water in which beef, chicken, etc., has been cooked, or by dissolving a commercially prepared bouillon cube or cubes in hot water.	noun	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
bound	simple past tense and past participle of 	verb	11	5-All English speakers likely know this word
bountiful	liberal in bestowing gifts, favors, or 	adjective	19	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
bourgeois	a member of the middle class.	noun	15	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
bout	a contest or trial of strength, as of boxing.	noun	8	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
bovine	of or relating to the subfamily Bovinae, which includes cattle, buffalo, and kudus.	adjective	14	8-All English speakers likely know this word
bowdlerize	to expurgate (a written work) by removing or modifying passages considered vulgar or objectionable.	verb (used with object)	27	69-Few English speakers likely know this word
brackish	slightly salt; having a salty or briny flavor.	adjective	20	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
brag	to use boastful language; boast	verb (used without object)	9	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
braggadocio	empty boasting; 	noun	22	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
braggart	a person who does a lot of 	noun	15	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
braid	to weave together strips or strands of; plait	verb (used with object)	9	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
brand	kind, grade, or make, as indicated by a stamp, trademark, or the like	noun	10	3-All English speakers likely know this word
brandish	to shake or wave, as a weapon; flourish	verb (used with object)	15	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
bravado	a pretentious, swaggering display of courage.	noun	15	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
brave	possessing or exhibiting courage or courageous endurance.	adjective	12	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
brawl	a noisy quarrel, squabble, or fight.	noun	12	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
brawn	strong, well-developed muscles.	noun	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
brawny	muscular; strong.	adjective	15	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
brazen	shameless or impudent	adjective	19	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
breach	the act or a result of breaking; break or rupture.	noun	14	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
breadth	the measure of the second largest dimension of a plane or solid figure; width.	noun	13	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
breed	to produce (offspring); procreate; engender.	verb (used with object)	9	5-All English speakers likely know this word
brevity	shortness of time or duration; 	noun	16	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
bridle	part of the tack or harness of a horse, consisting usually of a headstall, bit, and reins.	noun	11	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
brim	the upper edge of anything hollow; rim; brink	noun	10	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
brindled	gray or tawny with darker streaks or spots.	adjective	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
brink	the edge or margin of a steep place or of land bordering water.	noun	13	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
brisk	quick and active; lively	adjective	12	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
bristle	one of the short, stiff, coarse hairs of certain animals, especially hogs, used extensively in making brushes.	noun	11	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
bristling	one of the short, stiff, coarse hairs of certain animals, especially hogs, used extensively in making brushes.	noun	16	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
brittle	having hardness and rigidity but little tensile strength; breaking readily with a comparatively smooth fracture, as glass.	adjective	11	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
broach	Machinery. an elongated, tapered, serrated cutting tool for shaping and enlarging holes.	noun	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
brocade	fabric woven with an elaborate design, especially one having a raised overall pattern.	noun	14	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
brochure	a pamphlet or leaflet.	noun	17	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
broil	to cook by direct heat, as on a gridiron over the heat or in an oven under the heat; grill	verb (used with object)	9	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
bromide	Chemistry.    a salt of hydrobromic acid consisting of two elements, one of which is bromine, as 	noun	14	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
brooch	a clasp or ornament having a pin at the back for passing through the clothing and a catch for securing the point of the pin.	noun	14	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
brood	a number of young produced or hatched at one time; a family of offspring or young.	noun	9	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
brook	a small, natural stream of fresh water.	noun	12	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
browbeat	to intimidate by overbearing looks or words; bully	verb (used with object)	17	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
browse	to eat, nibble at, or feed on (leaves, tender shoots, or other soft vegetation).	verb (used with object)	12	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
bruise	to injure by striking or pressing, without breaking the skin	verb (used with object)	10	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
brunt	the main force or impact, as of an attack or blow	noun	10	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
brusque	abrupt in manner; blunt; rough	adjective	21	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
buccaneer	any of the piratical adventurers who raided Spanish colonies and ships along the American coast in the second half of the 17th century.	noun	20	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
bucolic	of or relating to shepherds; pastoral.	adjective	18	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
buffet	a blow, as with the hand or fist.	noun	16	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
buffoon	a person who amuses others by tricks, jokes, odd gestures and postures, etc.	noun	18	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
buffoonery	a person who amuses others by tricks, jokes, odd gestures and postures, etc.	noun	23	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
bugaboo	something that causes fear or worry; bugbear; bogy.	noun	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
bulge	a rounded projection, bend, or protruding part; protuberance; hump	noun	12	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
bulk	magnitude in three dimensions	noun	13	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
bullion	gold or silver considered in mass rather than in value.	noun	14	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
bully	a blustering, quarrelsome, overbearing person who habitually badgers and intimidates smaller or weaker people.	noun	13	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
bulwark	a wall of earth or other material built for defense; rampart.	noun	19	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
bump	to come more or less violently in contact with; collide with; strike	verb (used with object)	14	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
bungle	to do clumsily and awkwardly; botch	verb (used with object)	14	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
buoyant	tending to float in a fluid.	adjective	14	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
bureaucracy	government by many bureaus, administrators, and petty officials.	noun	24	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
burgeon	to grow or develop quickly; flourish	verb (used without object)	14	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
burlesque	an artistic composition, especially literary or dramatic, that, for the sake of laughter, vulgarizes lofty material or treats ordinary material with mock dignity.	noun	24	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
burnish	to polish (a surface) by friction.	verb (used with object)	14	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
bust	a sculptured, painted, drawn, or engraved representation of the upper part of the human figure, especially a portrait sculpture showing only the head and shoulders of the subject.	noun	8	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
buttress	any external prop or support built to steady a structure by opposing its outward thrusts, especially a projecting support built into or against the outside of a masonry wall.	noun	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
buxom	(of a woman) full-bosomed.	adjective	19	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
cabal	a small group of secret plotters, as against a government or person in authority.	noun	12	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
cache	a hiding place, especially one in the ground, for ammunition, food, treasures, etc.	noun	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
cacophonous	having a harsh or discordant sound.	adjective	24	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
cadaver	a dead body, especially a human body to be dissected; corpse.	noun	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
cadaverous	of or like a corpse.	adjective	19	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
cadence	rhythmic flow of a sequence of sounds or words	noun	15	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
cadet	a student in a national service academy or private military school or on a training ship.	noun	9	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
cajole	to persuade by flattery or promises; wheedle; coax.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	19	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
calamity	a great misfortune or disaster, as a flood or serious injury.	noun	17	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
calculated	arrived at or determined by mathematical 	adjective	20	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
cauldron	a large kettle or boiler.	noun	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
caliber	the diameter of something of circular section, especially that of the inside of a tube	noun	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
calligraphy	fancy penmanship, especially highly decorative handwriting, as with a great many flourishes	noun	25	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
callous	made hard; hardened.	adjective	13	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
callow	immature or inexperienced	adjective	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
callus	Pathology, Physiology.    a hardened or thickened part of the skin; a callosity.    a new growth of osseous matter at the ends of a fractured bone, serving to unite them.  	noun	12	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
calorific	pertaining to conversion into heat.	adjective	19	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
calumny	a false and malicious statement designed to injure the reputation of someone or something	noun	18	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
camaraderie	comradeship; good-fellowship.	noun	18	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
cameo	a technique of engraving upon a gem or other stone, as onyx, in such a way that an underlying stone of one color is exposed as a background for a low-relief design of another color.	noun	11	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
camp	a place where an army or other group of persons or an individual is lodged in a tent or tents or other temporary means of shelter.	noun	13	3-All English speakers likely know this word
canard	a false or baseless, usually derogatory story, report, or rumor.	noun	11	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
candor	the state or quality of being frank, open, and sincere in speech or expression; candidness	noun	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
canine	of or like a dog; relating to or characteristic of dogs	adjective	11	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
canker	a gangrenous or ulcerous sore, especially in the mouth.	noun	14	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
canny	careful; cautious; prudent	adjective	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
cant	insincere, especially conventional expressions of enthusiasm for high ideals, goodness, or piety.	noun	8	7-All English speakers likely know this word
cantankerous	disagreeable to deal with; contentious; peevish	adjective	22	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
cantata	a choral composition, either sacred and resembling a short oratorio or secular, as a lyric drama set to music but not to be acted.	noun	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
canter	an easy gallop.	noun	10	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
canto	one of the main or larger divisions of a long poem.	noun	9	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
canvass	to solicit votes, subscriptions, opinions, or the like from.	verb (used with object)	15	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
capacious	capable of holding much; spacious or roomy	adjective	19	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
capacity	the ability to receive or contain	noun	19	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
capillary	pertaining to or occurring in or as if in a tube of fine bore.	adjective	19	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
capitulate	to surrender unconditionally or on stipulated terms.	verb (used without object)	18	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
caprice	a sudden, unpredictable change, as of one's mind or the weather.	noun	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
capricious	subject to, led by, or indicative of a sudden, odd notion or unpredictable change; erratic	adjective	20	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
capsize	to turn bottom up; overturn	verb (used without object), verb (used with object)	22	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
caption	a title or explanation for a picture or illustration, especially in a magazine.	noun	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
captious	apt to notice and make much of trivial faults or defects; faultfinding; difficult to please.	adjective	15	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
carafe	a wide-mouthed glass or metal bottle with a lip or spout, for holding and serving beverages.	noun	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
carapace	a bony or chitinous shield, test, or shell covering some or all of the dorsal part of an animal, as of a turtle.	noun	17	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
carat	a unit of weight in gemstones, 200 milligrams (about 3 grains of troy or avoirdupois weight).  Abbreviation	noun	8	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
carcinogenic	any substance or agent that tends to produce a cancer.	noun	25	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
cardinal	of prime importance; chief; principal	adjective	14	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
cardiologist	the study of the heart and its functions in health and disease.	noun	19	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
careen	(of a vehicle) to lean, sway, or tip to one side while in motion	verb (used without object)	10	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
career	an occupation or profession, especially one requiring special training, followed as one's lifework	noun	9	6-All English speakers likely know this word
carefree	without anxiety or worry.	adjective	14	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
caricature	a picture, description, etc., ludicrously exaggerating the peculiarities or defects of persons or things	noun	17	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
carillon	a set of stationary bells hung in a tower and sounded by manual or pedal action, or by machinery.	noun	14	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
carnage	the slaughter of a great number of people, as in battle; butchery; massacre.	noun	13	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
carnal	pertaining to or characterized by the flesh or the body, its passions and appetites; sensual	adjective	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
carnivorous	flesh-eating	adjective	20	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
carousal	a noisy or drunken feast or social gathering; revelry.	noun	13	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
carping	characterized by fussy or petulant faultfinding; querulous	adjective	16	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
carrion	dead and putrefying flesh.	noun	11	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
cartography	the production of maps, including construction of projections, design, compilation, drafting, and reproduction.	noun	23	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
cascade	a waterfall descending over a steep, rocky surface.	noun	14	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
caste	Sociology.    an endogamous and hereditary social group limited to persons of the same rank, occupation, economic position, etc., and having mores distinguishing it from other such groups.    any rigid system of social distinctions.  	noun	8	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
castigation	to criticize or reprimand severely.	verb (used with object)	17	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
castrate	to remove the testes of; emasculate; geld.	verb (used with object)	11	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
casual	happening by chance; fortuitous	adjective	11	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
casualty	Military.    a member of the armed forces lost to service through death, wounds, sickness, capture, or because his or her whereabouts or condition cannot be determined.    casualties, loss in numerical strength through any cause, as death, wounds, sickness, capture, or desertion.  	noun	15	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
cataclysm	any violent upheaval, especially one of a social or political nature.	noun	21	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
catalyst	Chemistry. a substance that causes or accelerates a chemical reaction without itself being affected.	noun	14	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
catapult	an ancient military engine for hurling stones, arrows, etc.	noun	16	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
cataract	a descent of water over a steep surface; a waterfall, especially one of considerable size.	noun	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
catastrophe	a sudden and widespread disaster	noun	19	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
catcall	a shrill, whistlelike sound or loud raucous shout made to express disapproval at a theater, meeting, etc.	noun	15	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
catechism	Ecclesiastical.    an elementary book containing a summary of the principles of the Christian religion, especially as maintained by a particular church, in the form of questions and answers.    the contents of such a book.  	noun	20	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
categorical	without exceptions or conditions; absolute; unqualified and unconditional	adjective	20	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
cater	to provide food, service, etc., as for a party or wedding	verb (used without object)	8	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
catharsis	the purging of the emotions or relieving of emotional tensions, especially through certain kinds of art, as tragedy or music.	noun	14	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
cathartic	of or relating to 	adjective	17	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
catholic	broad or wide-ranging in tastes, interests, or the like; having sympathies with all; broad-minded; liberal.	adjective	17	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
caucus	U.S. Politics.    a meeting of party leaders to select candidates, elect convention delegates, etc.    a meeting of party members within a legislative body to select leaders and determine strategy.    (often initial capital letter) a faction within a legislative body that pursues its interests through the legislative process	noun	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
caulk	to fill or close seams or crevices of (a tank, window, etc.) in order to make watertight, airtight, etc.	verb (used with object)	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
causal	of, constituting, or implying a 	adjective	11	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
caustic	capable of burning, corroding, or destroying living tissue.	adjective	14	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
cauterize	to burn with a hot iron, electric current, fire, or a caustic, especially for curative purposes; treat with a 	verb (used with object)	22	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
cavalcade	a procession of persons riding on horses, in horsedrawn carriages, in cars, etc.	noun	21	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
cavalier	a horseman, especially a mounted soldier; knight.	noun	16	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
cavil	to raise irritating and trivial objections; find fault with unnecessarily (usually followed by at or about)	verb (used without object)	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
cede	to yield or formally surrender to another	verb (used with object)	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
celerity	swiftness; speed.	noun	14	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
celibate	a person who abstains from sexual relations.	noun	15	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
cemetery	an area set apart for or containing graves, tombs, or funeral urns, especially one that is not a churchyard; burial ground; graveyard.	noun	16	11-All English speakers likely know this word
censor	an official who examines books, plays, news reports, motion pictures, radio and television programs, letters, cablegrams, etc., for the purpose of suppressing parts deemed objectionable on moral, political, military, or other grounds.	noun	10	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
censorious	severely critical; faultfinding; carping.	adjective	15	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
censure	strong or vehement expression of disapproval	noun	12	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
centaur	Classical Mythology. one of a race of monsters having the head, trunk, and arms of a man, and the body and legs of a horse.	noun	12	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
centigrade	divided into 100 degrees, as a scale.	adjective	17	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
centrifugal	moving or directed outward from the center (opposed to 	adjective	22	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
centrifuge	an apparatus that rotates at high speed and by 	noun	20	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
centripetal	directed toward the center (opposed to 	adjective	19	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
centurion	(in the ancient Roman army) the commander of a century.	noun	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
cerebral	Anatomy, Zoology. of or relating to the cerebrum or the brain.	adjective	15	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
cerebration	to use the mind; think or think about.	verb (used without object), verb (used with object)	18	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
ceremonious	carefully observant of 	adjective	19	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
certitude	freedom from doubt, especially in matters of faith or opinion; certainty.	noun	14	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
cessation	a temporary or complete stopping; discontinuance	noun	13	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
cession	act of 	noun	11	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
chafe	to wear or abrade by rubbing	verb (used with object)	13	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
chaff	the husks of grains and grasses that are separated during threshing.	noun	16	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
chaffing	to mock, tease, or jest in a good-natured way; banter	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	22	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
chagrin	a feeling of vexation, marked by disappointment or humiliation.	noun	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
chalice	Ecclesiastical.    a cup for the wine of the Eucharist or Mass.    the wine contained in it.  	noun	16	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
chameleon	any of numerous Old World lizards of the family Chamaeleontidae, characterized by the ability to change the color of their skin, very slow locomotion, and a projectile tongue.	noun	19	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
champion	a person who has defeated all opponents in a competition or series of competitions, so as to hold first place	noun	20	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
championship	the distinction or condition of being a 	noun	29	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
chancellor	the chief minister of state in certain parliamentary governments, as in Germany; prime minister; premier.	noun	21	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
chant	a short, simple melody, especially one characterized by single notes to which an indefinite number of syllables are intoned, used in singing psalms, canticles, etc., in church services.	noun	11	9-All English speakers likely know this word
chaotic	completely confused or disordered	adjective	15	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
chapel	a private or subordinate place of prayer or worship; oratory.	noun	15	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
chaperon	a person, usually a married or older woman, who, for propriety, accompanies a young unmarried woman in public or who attends a party of young unmarried men and women.	noun	17	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
chaplain	an ecclesiastic attached to the chapel of a royal court, college, etc., or to a military unit.	noun	18	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
char	to burn or reduce to 	verb (used with object)	9	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
charisma	Theology. a divinely conferred gift or power.	noun	16	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
charlatan	a person who pretends or claims to have more knowledge or skill than he or she possesses; quack.	noun	16	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
charm	a power of pleasing or attracting, as through personality or beauty	noun	13	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
chary	cautious or careful; wary	adjective	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
chase	to pursue in order to seize, overtake, etc.	verb (used with object)	10	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
chasm	a yawning fissure or deep cleft in the earth's surface; gorge.	noun	13	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
chassis	Automotive. the frame, wheels, and machinery of a motor vehicle, on which the body is supported.	noun	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
chaste	refraining from sexual intercourse that is regarded as contrary to morality or religion; virtuous.	adjective	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
chasten	to inflict suffering upon for purposes of moral improvement; 	verb (used with object)	13	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
chastise	to discipline, especially by corporal punishment.	verb (used with object)	13	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
check	to stop or arrest the motion of suddenly or forcibly	verb (used with object)	17	9-All English speakers likely know this word
chequered	a small, usually red or black disk of plastic or wood, used in playing checkers.	noun	25	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
cherub	a celestial being. Gen. 3	noun	15	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
chicanery	trickery or deception by quibbling or sophistry	noun	20	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
chide	to express disapproval of; scold; reproach	verb (used with object)	11	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
chimerical	unreal; imaginary; visionary	adjective	22	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
chip	a small, slender piece, as of wood, separated by chopping, cutting, or breaking.	noun	12	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
chisel	a wedgelike tool with a cutting edge at the end of the blade, often made of steel, used for cutting or shaping wood, stone, etc.	noun	12	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
chivalrous	having the qualities of 	adjective	21	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
choice	an act or instance of 	noun	14	6-All English speakers likely know this word
choir	a company of singers, especially an organized group employed in church service.	noun	10	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
choleric	extremely irritable or easily angered; irascible	adjective	17	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
chore	a small or odd job; routine task.	noun	10	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
choreography	the art of composing ballets and other dances and planning and arranging the movements, steps, and patterns of dancers.	noun	26	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
chortle	to chuckle gleefully.	verb (used without object)	13	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
chorus	Music.    a group of persons singing in unison.    (in an opera, oratorio, etc.) such a group singing 	noun	12	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
chronic	constant; habitual; inveterate	adjective	16	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
chronicle	a chronological record of events; a history.	noun	19	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
chuckle	to laugh softly or amusedly, usually with satisfaction	verb (used without object)	21	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
churlish	like a churl; boorish; rude	adjective	17	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
ciliated	Also called ciliophoran          	noun	13	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
cipher		noun	14	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
circlet	a small circle.	noun	14	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
circuit	an act or instance of going or moving around.	noun	14	10-All English speakers likely know this word
circuitous	roundabout; not direct	adjective	18	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
circumlocution	a roundabout or indirect way of speaking; the use of more words than necessary to express an idea.	noun	30	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
circumscribe	to draw a line around; encircle	verb (used with object)	28	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
circumspect	watchful and discreet; cautious; prudent	adjective	27	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
circumvent	to go around or bypass	verb (used with object)	25	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
cistern	a reservoir, tank, or container for storing or holding water or other liquid.	noun	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
citadel	a fortress that commands a city and is used in the control of the inhabitants and in defense during attack or siege.	noun	12	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
cite	to quote (a passage, book, author, etc.), especially as an authority	verb (used with object)	7	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
civil	of, relating to, or consisting of citizens	adjective	13	7-All English speakers likely know this word
clairvoyant	having or claiming to have the power of seeing objects or actions beyond the range of natural vision	adjective	22	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
clamber	to climb, using both feet and hands; climb with effort or difficulty.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	17	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
clamor	a loud uproar, as from a crowd of people	noun	13	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
clandestine	characterized by, done in, or executed with secrecy or concealment, especially for purposes of subversion or deception; private or surreptitious	adjective	18	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
clangor	a loud, resonant sound; 	noun	14	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
clap	to strike the palms of (one's hands) against one another resoundingly, and usually repeatedly, especially to express approval	verb (used with object)	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
clapper	a person who applauds.	noun	17	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
clarion	clear and shrill	adjective	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
clasp	a device, usually of metal, for fastening together two or more things or parts of the same thing	noun	12	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
claustrophobia	an abnormal fear of being in enclosed or narrow places.	noun	27	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
clavicle	a bone of the pectoral arch.	noun	20	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
cleave	to adhere closely; stick; cling (usually followed by to).	verb (used without object)	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
cleft	a space or opening made by cleavage; a split.	noun	12	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
clemency	the quality of being 	noun	21	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
cliche	a trite, stereotyped expression; a sentence or phrase, usually expressing a popular or common thought or idea, that has lost originality, ingenuity, and impact by long overuse, as sadder but wiser, or strong as an ox.	noun	15	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
clientele	the clients or customers, as of a professional person or shop, considered collectively; a group or body of clients	noun	15	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
climactic	pertaining to or coming to a 	adjective	22	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
clime		noun	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
clip	to cut, or cut off or out, as with shears	verb (used with object)	11	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
clipper	a person or thing that 	noun	17	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
clique	a small, exclusive group of people; coterie; set.	noun	20	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
cloister	a covered walk, especially in a religious institution, having an open arcade or colonnade usually opening onto a courtyard.	noun	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
clot	a mass or lump.	noun	8	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
clout	a blow, especially with the hand; cuff	noun	10	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
clown	a comic performer, as in a circus, theatrical production, or the like, who wears an outlandish costume and makeup and entertains by pantomiming common situations or actions in exaggerated or ridiculous fashion, by juggling or tumbling, etc.	noun	13	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
cloying	causing or tending to cause disgust or aversion through excess	adjective	16	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
coagulate	to change from a fluid into a thickened mass; curdle; congeal	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
coalesce	to grow together or into one body	verb (used without object)	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
coalition	a combination or alliance, especially a temporary one between persons, factions, states, etc.	noun	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
coax	to attempt to influence by gentle persuasion, flattery, etc.; cajole	verb (used with object)	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
coda	Music. a more or less independent passage, at the end of a composition, introduced to bring it to a satisfactory close.	noun	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
coddle	to treat tenderly; nurse or tend indulgently; pamper	verb (used with object)	12	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
codicil	a supplement to a will, containing an addition, explanation, modification, etc., of something in the will.	noun	15	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
codify	to reduce (laws, rules, etc.) to a 	verb (used with object)	15	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
coercion	the act of 	noun	15	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
coeval	of the same age, date, or duration; equally old	adjective	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
cog	(not in technical use) a gear tooth, formerly especially one of hardwood or metal, fitted into a slot in a gearwheel of less durable material.	noun	8	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
cogent	convincing or believable by virtue of forcible, clear, or incisive presentation; telling.	adjective	12	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
cogitate	to think hard; ponder; meditate	verb (used without object)	13	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
cognate	related by birth; of the same parentage, descent, etc.	adjective	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
cognitive	of or relating to 	adjective	19	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
cognizance	awareness, realization, or knowledge; notice; perception	noun	29	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
cohabit	to live together as if married, usually without legal or religious sanction.	verb (used without object)	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
cohere	to stick together; be united; hold fast, as parts of the same mass	verb (used without object)	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
cohesion	the act or state of 	noun	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
cohorts	a group or company	noun	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
coiffure	a style of arranging or combing the hair.	noun	18	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
coin	a piece of metal stamped and issued by the authority of a government for use as money.	noun	8	7-All English speakers likely know this word
coincidence	a striking occurrence of two or more events at one time apparently by mere chance	noun	23	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
colander	a metal or plastic container with a perforated bottom, for draining and straining foods.	noun	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
collaborate	to work, one with another; cooperate, as on a literary work	verb (used without object)	19	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
collage	a technique of composing a work of art by pasting on a single surface various materials not normally associated with one another, as newspaper clippings, parts of photographs, theater tickets, and fragments of an envelope.	noun	14	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
collate	to gather or arrange in their proper sequence (the pages of a report, the sheets of a book, the pages of several sets of copies, etc.).	verb (used with object)	12	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
collateral	security pledged for the payment of a loan	noun	16	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
collation	the act of 	noun	15	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
collected	having control of one's faculties; self-possessed	adjective	18	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
colloquial	characteristic of or appropriate to ordinary or familiar conversation rather than formal speech or writing; informal.	adjective	26	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
colloquy	a conversational exchange; dialogue.	noun	25	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
collusion	a secret agreement, especially for fraudulent or treacherous purposes; conspiracy	noun	16	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
colossal	extraordinarily great in size, extent, or degree; gigantic; huge.	adjective	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
colossus	(initial capital letter) the legendary bronze statue of Helios at Rhodes.  Compare  	noun	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
coma	a state of prolonged unconsciousness, including a lack of response to stimuli, from which it is impossible to rouse a person.	noun	10	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
comatose	affected with or characterized by coma.	adjective	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
combustible	capable of catching fire and burning; inflammable; flammable	adjective	25	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
comeback	a return to a former higher rank, popularity, position, prosperity, etc.	noun	24	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
comely	pleasing in appearance; attractive; fair	adjective	15	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
comestible	edible; eatable.	adjective	20	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
comeuppance	deserved reward or just deserts, usually unpleasant	noun	28	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
comity	mutual courtesy; civility.	noun	14	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
commandeer	to order or force into active military service.	verb (used with object)	21	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
commemorate	to serve as a memorial or reminder of	verb (used with object)	23	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
commemorative	serving to 	adjective	29	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
commensurate	corresponding in amount, magnitude, or degree	adjective	23	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
commiserate	to feel or express sorrow or sympathy for; empathize with; pity.	verb (used with object)	20	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
commodious	spacious and convenient; roomy	adjective	21	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
commonplace	ordinary; undistinguished or uninteresting; without individuality	adjective	28	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
commonwealth	(initial capital letter) a group of sovereign states and their dependencies associated by their own choice and linked with common objectives and interests	noun	28	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
communal	used or shared in common by everyone in a group	adjective	20	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
commune	to converse or talk together, usually with profound intensity, intimacy, etc.; interchange thoughts or feelings.	verb (used without object)	18	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
compact	joined or packed together; closely and firmly united; dense; solid	adjective	19	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
compartment	a part or space marked or partitioned off.	noun	24	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
compassion	a feeling of deep sympathy and sorrow for another who is stricken by misfortune, accompanied by a strong desire to alleviate the suffering.	noun	20	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
compatible	capable of existing or living together in harmony	adjective	23	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
compelling	tending to 	adjective	24	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
compendium	a brief treatment or account of a subject, especially an extensive subject; concise treatise	noun	25	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
compensatory	serving to 	adjective	24	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
compilation	the act of 	noun	22	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
compile	to put together (documents, selections, or other materials) in one book or work.	verb (used with object)	17	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
complacency	a feeling of quiet pleasure or security, often while unaware of some potential danger, defect, or the like; self-satisfaction or smug satisfaction with an existing situation, condition, etc.	noun	30	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
complaisant	inclined or disposed to please; obliging; agreeable or gracious; compliant	adjective	22	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
complement	something that completes or makes perfect	noun	24	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
complementary	forming a 	adjective	29	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
compliance	the act of conforming, acquiescing, or yielding.	noun	24	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
compliant		adjective	20	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
complicity	the state of being an accomplice; partnership or involvement in wrongdoing	noun	25	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
component	a constituent part; element; ingredient.	noun	20	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
comport	to bear or conduct (oneself); behave	verb (used with object)	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
compost	a mixture of various decaying organic substances, as dead leaves or manure, used for fertilizing soil.	noun	16	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
composure	serene, self-controlled state of mind; calmness; tranquillity	noun	19	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
compound	composed of two or more parts, elements, or ingredients	adjective	20	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
comprehensive	of large scope; covering or involving much; inclusive	adjective	29	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
compress	to press together; force into less space.	verb (used with object)	17	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
comprise	to include or contain	verb (used with object)	17	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
compromise	a settlement of differences by mutual concessions; an agreement reached by adjustment of conflicting or opposing claims, principles, etc., by reciprocal modification of demands.	noun	22	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
compulsion	the act of 	noun	22	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
compulsive	compelling; compulsory.	adjective	25	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
compulsory	required; mandatory; obligatory	adjective	23	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
compunction	a feeling of uneasiness or anxiety of the conscience caused by regret for doing wrong or causing pain; contrition; remorse.	noun	26	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
compute	to determine by calculation; reckon; calculate	verb (used with object)	17	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
concatenate	to link together; unite in a series or chain.	verb (used with object)	19	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
concave	curved like a segment of the interior of a circle or 	adjective	18	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
concede	to acknowledge as true, just, or proper; admit	verb (used with object)	15	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
conceit	an excessively favorable opinion of one's own ability, importance, wit, etc.	noun	14	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
concentric	having a common center, as circles or spheres.	adjective	21	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
conception	the act of 	noun	21	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
concerted	contrived or arranged by agreement; planned or devised together	adjective	17	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
concession	the act of 	noun	18	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
conciliatory	tending to 	adjective	22	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
concise	expressing or covering much in few words; brief in form but comprehensive in scope; succinct; terse	adjective	14	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
conclave	a private or secret meeting.	noun	20	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
conclusive	serving to settle or decide a question; decisive; convincing	adjective	23	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
concoct	to prepare or make by combining ingredients, especially in cookery	verb (used with object)	17	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
concomitant	existing or occurring with something else, often in a lesser way; accompanying; concurrent	adjective	22	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
concord		noun	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
concordat	an agreement or compact, especially an official one.	noun	17	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
concur	to accord in opinion; agree	verb (used without object)	14	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
concurrent	occurring or existing simultaneously or side by side	adjective	19	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
condescend	to behave as if one is conscious of descending from a superior position, rank, or dignity.	verb (used without object)	20	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
condign	well-deserved; fitting; adequate	adjective	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
condiments	something used to give a special flavor to food, as mustard, ketchup, salt, or spices.	noun	19	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
condole	to express sympathy with a person who is suffering sorrow, misfortune, or grief (usually followed by with)	verb (used without object)	13	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
condone	to disregard or overlook (something illegal, objectionable, or the like)	verb (used with object)	13	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
conducive	tending to produce; contributive; helpful; favorable (usually followed by to)	adjective	22	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
conduit	a pipe, tube, or the like, for conveying water or other fluid.	noun	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
confidant	a close friend or associate to whom secrets are 	noun	18	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
confide	to impart secrets trustfully; discuss private matters or problems (usually followed by in)	verb (used without object)	15	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
confidence	full trust; belief in the powers, trustworthiness, or reliability of a person or thing	noun	22	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
confidential	spoken, written, acted on, etc., in strict privacy or secrecy; secret	adjective	22	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
confine	to enclose within bounds; limit or restrict	verb (used with object)	15	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
confiscate	to seize as forfeited to the public domain; appropriate, by way of penalty, for public use.	verb (used with object)	20	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
conflagration	a destructive fire, usually an extensive one.	noun	24	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
confluence	a flowing together of two or more streams, rivers, or the like	noun	23	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
conformity	action in accord with prevailing social standards, attitudes, practices, etc.	noun	22	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
confound	to perplex or amaze, especially by a sudden disturbance or surprise; bewilder; confuse	verb (used with object)	18	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
congeal	to change from a soft or fluid state to a rigid or solid state, as by cooling or freezing	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	14	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
congenial	agreeable, suitable, or pleasing in nature or character	adjective	17	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
congenital	of or relating to a condition present at birth, whether inherited or caused by the environment, especially the uterine environment.	adjective	18	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
conglomerate	anything composed of heterogeneous materials or elements.	noun	22	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
conglomeration	the act of 	noun	25	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
congruence	the quality or state of agreeing or corresponding.	noun	21	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
congruent	agreeing; accordant; congruous.	adjective	17	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
conifer	any of numerous, chiefly evergreen trees or shrubs of the class Coniferinae (or group Coniferales), including the pine, fir, spruce, and other cone-bearing trees and shrubs, and also the yews and their allies that bear drupelike seeds.	noun	14	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
conjecture	the formation or expression of an opinion or theory without sufficient evidence for proof.	noun	27	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
conjugal	of, relating to, or characteristic of marriage	adjective	25	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
conjure	to affect or influence by or as if by invocation or spell.	verb (used with object)	21	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
connivance	the act of conniving.	noun	23	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
connoisseur	a person who is especially competent to pass critical judgments in an art, particularly one of the fine arts, or in matters of taste	noun	17	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
connotation	   the associated or secondary meaning of a word or expression in addition to its explicit or primary meaning	noun	17	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
connubial	of marriage or wedlock; matrimonial; conjugal	adjective	19	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
consanguineous	having the same ancestry or descent; related by blood.	adjective	24	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
consanguinity	relationship by descent from a common ancestor; kinship (distinguished from 	noun	24	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
conscientious	governed by 	adjective	22	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
conscript	to draft for military or naval service.	verb (used with object)	19	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
consecrate	to make or declare sacred; set apart or dedicate to the service of a deity	verb (used with object)	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
consensus	majority of opinion	noun	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
consequential	following as an effect, result, or outcome; resultant; consequent.	adjective	29	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
conservatory	a school giving instruction in one or more of the fine or dramatic arts; specifically, a school of music.	noun	22	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
consign	to hand over or deliver formally or officially; commit (often followed by to).	verb (used with object)	14	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
consistency	a degree of density, firmness, viscosity, etc.	noun	21	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
console	to alleviate or lessen the grief, sorrow, or disappointment of; give solace or comfort	verb (used with object)	12	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
consolidation	an act or instance of consolidating; the state of being consolidated; unification	noun	20	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
consonance	accord or agreement.	noun	19	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
consonant	Phonetics.    (in English articulation) a speech sound produced by occluding with or without releasing (p, b; t, d; k, g), diverting (m, n, ng), or obstructing (f, v; s, z, etc.) the flow of air from the lungs (opposed to 	noun	15	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
consort	a husband or wife; spouse, especially of a reigning monarch.  Compare  	noun	11	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
conspiracy	the act of 	noun	22	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
conspire	to agree together, especially secretly, to do something wrong, evil, or illegal	verb (used without object)	15	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
consternation	a sudden, alarming amazement or dread that results in utter confusion; dismay.	noun	19	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
constituency	a body of 	noun	23	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
constituent	serving to compose or make up a thing; component	adjective	17	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
constitution	the system of fundamental principles according to which a nation, state, corporation, or the like, is governed.	noun	18	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
constraint	limitation or restriction.	noun	15	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
construe	to give the meaning or intention of; explain; interpret.	verb (used with object)	13	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
consummate	to bring to a state of perfection; fulfill.	verb (used with object)	21	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
contagion	the communication of disease by direct or indirect contact.	noun	16	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
contaminate	to make impure or unsuitable by contact or mixture with something unclean, bad, etc.	verb (used with object)	19	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
contempt	the feeling with which a person regards anything considered mean, vile, or worthless; disdain; scorn.	noun	18	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
contend	to struggle in opposition	verb (used without object)	13	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
contention	a struggling together in opposition; strife.	noun	16	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
contentious	tending to argument or strife; quarrelsome	adjective	17	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
contest	a race, conflict, or other competition between rivals, as for a prize.	noun	11	9-All English speakers likely know this word
context	the parts of a written or spoken statement that precede or follow a specific word or passage, usually influencing its meaning or effect	noun	18	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
contiguous	touching; in contact.	adjective	18	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
continence	self-restraint or abstinence, especially in regard to sexual activity; temperance; moderation.	noun	19	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
contingent	dependent for existence, occurrence, character, etc., on something not yet certain; conditional (often followed by on or upon)	adjective	18	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
contortions	the act or process of 	noun	16	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
contraband	anything prohibited by law from being imported or exported.	noun	19	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
contravene	to come or be in conflict with; go or act against; deny or oppose	verb (used with object)	19	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
contrite	caused by or showing sincere remorse.	adjective	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
contrivance	something 	noun	23	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
contrive	to plan with ingenuity; devise; invent	verb (used with object)	16	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
contrived	obviously planned or forced; artificial; strained	adjective	18	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
controvert	to argue against; dispute; deny; oppose.	verb (used with object)	18	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
contumacious	stubbornly perverse or rebellious; willfully and obstinately disobedient.	adjective	24	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
contusion	an injury, as from a blow with a blunt instrument, in which the subsurface tissue is injured but the skin is not broken; bruise.	noun	15	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
conundrum	a riddle, the answer to which involves a pun or play on words, as What is black and white and read all over? A newspaper.	noun	20	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
convene	to come together or assemble, usually for some public purpose.	verb (used without object)	16	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
convention	a meeting or formal assembly, as of representatives or delegates, for discussion of and action on particular matters of common concern.	noun	20	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
conventional	conforming or adhering to accepted standards, as of conduct or taste	adjective	23	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
converge	to tend to meet in a point or line; incline toward each other, as lines that are not parallel.	verb (used without object)	18	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
conversant	familiar by use or study (usually followed by with)	adjective	19	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
converse	to talk informally with another or others; exchange views, opinions, etc., by talking.	verb (used without object)	16	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
convert	to change (something) into a different form or properties; transmute; transform.	verb (used with object)	15	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
convex	having a surface that is curved or rounded outward.  Compare  	adjective	21	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
conveyance	the act of conveying; transmission; communication.	noun	24	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
conviction	a fixed or firm belief	noun	22	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
convivial	friendly; agreeable	adjective	22	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
convoke	to call together; summon to meet or assemble.	verb (used with object)	19	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
convoluted	twisted; coiled.	adjective	21	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
convulsion	contortion of the body caused by violent, involuntary muscular contractions of the extremities, trunk, and head.	noun	21	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
copious	large in quantity or number; abundant; plentiful	adjective	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
coquette	a woman who flirts lightheartedly with men to win their admiration and affection; flirt.	noun	21	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
cordial	courteous and gracious; friendly; warm	adjective	12	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
cordon	a line of police, sentinels, military posts, warships, etc., enclosing or guarding an area.	noun	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
cornice	Architecture.    any prominent, continuous, horizontally projecting feature surmounting a wall or other construction, or dividing it horizontally for compositional purposes.    the uppermost member of a classical entablature, consisting of a bed molding, a corona, and a cymatium, with rows of dentils, modillions, etc., often placed between the bed molding and the corona.  	noun	14	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
cornucopia	Classical Mythology. a horn containing food, drink, etc., in endless supply, said to have been a horn of the goat Amalthaea.	noun	21	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
corollary	Mathematics. a proposition that is incidentally proved in proving another proposition.	noun	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
corporeal	of the nature of the physical body; bodily.	adjective	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
corpulent	large or bulky of body; portly; stout; fat.	adjective	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
corpus	a large or complete collection of writings	noun	13	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
corpuscle	Biology. an unattached cell, especially of a kind that floats freely, as a blood or lymph cell.	noun	20	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
correlate	to place in or bring into mutual or reciprocal relation; establish in orderly connection	verb (used with object)	13	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
correlation	mutual relation of two or more things, parts, etc.	noun	16	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
corroborate	to make more certain; confirm	verb (used with object)	17	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
corrode	to eat or wear away gradually as if by gnawing, especially by chemical action.	verb (used with object)	11	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
corrosive	having the quality of 	adjective	16	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
corrugated	to draw or bend into folds or alternate furrows and ridges.	verb (used with object)	17	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
cosmic	of or relating to the 	adjective	15	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
coterie	a group of people who associate closely.	noun	10	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
countenance	appearance, especially the look or expression of the face	noun	21	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
countermand	to revoke or cancel (a command, order, etc.).	verb (used with object)	21	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
counterpart	a person or thing closely resembling another, especially in function	noun	19	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
coup	a highly successful, unexpected stroke, act, or move; a clever action or accomplishment.	noun	11	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
couple	two of the same sort considered together; pair.	noun	14	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
courier	a messenger, usually traveling in haste, bearing urgent news, important reports or packages, diplomatic messages, etc.	noun	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
court	Law.    a place where justice is administered.    a judicial tribunal duly constituted for the hearing and determination of cases.    a session of a judicial assembly.  	noun	9	2-All English speakers likely know this word
covenant	an agreement, usually formal, between two or more persons to do or not do something specified.	noun	17	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
covert	concealed; secret; disguised.	adjective	13	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
covetous	inordinately or wrongly desirous of wealth or possessions; greedy.	adjective	16	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
cow	the mature female of a bovine animal, especially of the genus Bos.	noun	9	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
cower	to crouch, as in fear or shame.	verb (used without object)	11	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
coy	artfully or affectedly shy or reserved; slyly hesitant; coquettish.	adjective	8	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
cozen	to cheat, deceive, or trick.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	18	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
crabbed	grouchy; ill-natured; irritable; churlish.	adjective	17	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
craft	an art, trade, or occupation requiring special skill, especially manual skill	noun	11	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
crass	without refinement, delicacy, or sensitivity; gross; obtuse; stupid	adjective	8	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
crave	to long for; want greatly; desire eagerly	verb (used with object)	12	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
craven	cowardly; contemptibly timid; pusillanimous.	adjective	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
credence	belief as to the truth of something	noun	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
credential	Usually, credentials. evidence of authority, status, rights, entitlement to privileges, or the like, usually in written form	noun	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
credo	(often initial capital letter) the Apostles' Creed or the Nicene Creed.	noun	9	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
credulity	willingness to believe or trust too readily, especially without proper or adequate evidence; gullibility.	noun	17	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
creed	any system, doctrine, or formula of religious belief, as of a denomination.	noun	9	7-All English speakers likely know this word
creep	to move slowly with the body close to the ground, as a reptile or an insect, or a person on hands and knees.	verb (used without object)	11	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
cremate	to reduce (a dead body) to ashes by fire, especially as a funeral rite.	verb (used with object)	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
crescendo	Music.    a gradual, steady increase in loudness or force.    a musical passage characterized by such an increase.    the performance of a crescendo passage	noun	17	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
crest	the highest part of a hill or mountain range; summit.	noun	8	10-All English speakers likely know this word
crestfallen	dejected; dispirited; discouraged.	adjective	20	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
crevice	a crack forming an opening; cleft; rift; fissure.	noun	17	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
cringe	to shrink, bend, or crouch, especially in fear or servility; cower.	verb (used without object)	12	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
crinkle	to wrinkle; crimple; ripple.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
criteria	a standard of judgment or criticism; a rule or principle for evaluating or testing something.	noun	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
crochet	needlework done with a needle having a small hook at one end for drawing the thread or yarn through intertwined loops.	noun	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
crone	a withered, witchlike old woman.	noun	9	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
cross	a structure consisting essentially of an upright and a transverse piece, used to execute persons in ancient times.	noun	8	3-All English speakers likely know this word
crossbreed	to produce (a hybrid); hybridize.	verb (used with object)	17	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
crotchety	given to odd notions, whims, grouchiness, etc.	adjective	19	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
crust	the brown, hard outer portion or surface of a loaf or slice of bread (distinguished from 	noun	9	6-All English speakers likely know this word
crux	a vital, basic, decisive, or pivotal point	noun	15	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
crypt	a subterranean chamber or vault, especially one beneath the main floor of a church, used as a burial place, a location for secret meetings, etc.	noun	13	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
cryptic	mysterious in meaning; puzzling; ambiguous	adjective	18	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
cubicle	a small space or compartment partitioned off.	noun	18	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
cue	anything said or done, on or off stage, that is followed by a specific line or action	noun	7	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
cuisine	a style or quality of cooking; cookery	noun	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
culinary	of, relating to, or used in cooking or the kitchen.	adjective	16	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
cull	to choose; select; pick.	verb (used with object)	10	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
culmination	the act or fact of 	noun	21	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
culpable	deserving blame or censure; blameworthy.	adjective	20	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
culprit	a person or other agent guilty of or responsible for an offense or fault.	noun	15	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
culvert	a drain or channel crossing under a road, sidewalk, etc.; sewer; conduit.	noun	16	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
cumbersome	burdensome; troublesome.	adjective	23	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
cumulative	increasing or growing by accumulation or successive additions	adjective	23	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
cunning	skill employed in a shrewd or sly manner, as in deceiving; craftiness; guile.	noun	16	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
cupidity	eager or excessive desire, especially to possess something; greed; avarice.	noun	18	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
curator	the person in charge of a museum, art collection, etc.	noun	11	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
curb	a rim, especially of joined stones or concrete, along a street or roadway, forming an edge for a sidewalk.	noun	11	11-All English speakers likely know this word
curfew	an order establishing a specific time in the evening after which certain regulations apply, especially that no civilians or other specified group of unauthorized persons may be outdoors or that places of public assembly must be closed.	noun	16	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
curmudgeon	a bad-tempered, difficult, cantankerous person.	noun	22	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
cursive	(of handwriting) in flowing strokes with the letters joined together.	adjective	15	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
cursory	going rapidly over something, without noticing details; hasty; superficial	adjective	13	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
curtail	to cut short; cut off a part of; abridge; reduce; diminish.	verb (used with object)	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
cynical	distrusting or disparaging the motives of others; like or characteristic of a 	adjective	17	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
cynosure	something that strongly attracts attention by its brilliance, interest, etc.	noun	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
dabble	to play and splash in or as if in water, especially with the hands.	verb (used without object)	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
dainty	of delicate beauty; exquisite	adjective	10	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
dais	a raised platform, as at the front of a room, for a lectern, throne, seats of honor, etc.	noun	5	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
dally	to waste time; loiter; delay.	verb (used without object)	10	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
damn	to declare (something) to be bad, unfit, invalid, or illegal.	verb (used with object)	9	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
dank	unpleasantly moist or humid; damp and, often, chilly	adjective	10	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
dapper	neat; trim; smart	adjective	13	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
dappled	having spots of a different shade, tone, or color from the background; mottled.	adjective	16	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
dart	a small, slender missile that is pointed at one end and usually feathered at the other and is propelled by hand, as in the game of darts, or by a blowgun when used as a weapon.	noun	5	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
daub	to cover or coat with soft, adhesive matter, as plaster or mud	verb (used with object)	9	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
daunt	to overcome with fear; intimidate	verb (used with object)	8	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
dauntless	not to be 	adjective	13	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
dawdle	to waste time; idle; trifle; loiter	verb (used without object)	12	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
daze	to stun or stupefy with a blow, shock, etc.	verb (used with object)	14	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
dazzle	to overpower or dim the vision of by intense light	verb (used with object)	26	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
deadlock	a state in which progress is impossible, as in a dispute, produced by the counteraction of opposing forces; standstill; stalemate	noun	18	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
deadpan	marked by or accomplished with a careful pretense of seriousness or calm detachment; impassive or expressionless	adjective	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
dearth	an inadequate supply; scarcity; lack	noun	9	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
debacle	a general breakup or dispersion; sudden downfall or rout	noun	15	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
debar	to shut out or exclude from a place or condition	verb (used with object)	9	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
debase	to reduce in quality or value; adulterate	verb (used with object)	10	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
debauch	to corrupt by sensuality, intemperance, etc.; seduce.	verb (used with object)	17	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
debilitate	to make weak or feeble; enfeeble	verb (used with object)	15	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
debonair	courteous, gracious, and having a sophisticated charm	adjective	13	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
debris	the remains of anything broken down or destroyed; ruins; rubble	noun	10	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
debunk	to expose or excoriate (a claim, assertion, sentiment, etc.) as being pretentious, false, or exaggerated	verb (used with object)	16	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
debut	a first public appearance on a stage, on television, etc.	noun	10	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
debutante	a young woman making a debut into society.	noun	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
decadence	the act or process of falling into an inferior condition or state; deterioration; decay	noun	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
decant	to pour (wine or other liquid) gently so as not to disturb the sediment.	verb (used with object)	11	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
decapitate	to cut off the head of; behead	verb (used with object)	17	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
decelerate	to decrease the velocity of	verb (used with object)	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
deciduous	shedding the leaves annually, as certain trees and shrubs.	adjective	16	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
decimate	to destroy a great number or proportion of	verb (used with object)	15	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
decipher	to make out the meaning of (poor or partially obliterated writing, etc.)	verb (used with object)	17	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
declivity	a downward slope, as of ground (opposed to 	noun	20	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
decollete	(of a garment) low-necked.	adjective	15	79-Few English speakers likely know this word
decomposition	the act or process of 	noun	24	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
decorous	characterized by dignified propriety in conduct, manners, appearance, character, etc.	adjective	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
decorum	dignified propriety of behavior, speech, dress, etc.	noun	15	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
decoy	a person who entices or lures another person or thing, as into danger, a trap, or the like.	noun	11	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
decree	a formal and authoritative order, especially one having the force of law	noun	10	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
decrepit	weakened by old age; feeble; infirm	adjective	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
decrepitude	decrepit condition; dilapidated state; feebleness, especially from old age.	noun	20	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
decry	to speak disparagingly of; denounce as faulty or worthless; express censure of	verb (used with object)	11	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
deducible	to derive as a conclusion from something known or assumed; infer	verb (used with object)	19	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
deface	to mar the surface or appearance of; disfigure	verb (used with object)	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
defalcate	to be guilty of 	verb (used without object)	17	72-Few English speakers likely know this word
defame	to attack the good name or reputation of, as by uttering or publishing maliciously or falsely anything injurious; slander or libel; calumniate	verb (used with object)	13	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
default	failure to act; inaction or neglect	noun	13	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
defeatist	a person who surrenders easily or is subject to 	noun	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
defect	a shortcoming, fault, or imperfection	noun	13	11-All English speakers likely know this word
defection	desertion from allegiance, loyalty, duty, or the like; apostasy	noun	17	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
defer	to put off (action, consideration, etc.) to a future time	verb (used with object)	9	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
deference	respectful submission or yielding to the judgment, opinion, will, etc., of another.	noun	17	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
defiance	a daring or bold resistance to authority or to any opposing force.	noun	16	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
defile	to make foul, dirty, or unclean; pollute; taint; debase.	verb (used with object)	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
definitive	most reliable or complete, as of a text, author, criticism, study, or the like	adjective	19	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
deflect	to bend or turn aside; turn from a true course or straight line; swerve.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	15	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
defoliate	to strip (a tree, bush, etc.) of leaves.	verb (used with object)	14	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
defray	to bear or pay all or part of (the costs, expenses, etc.)	verb (used with object)	12	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
defrock	to unfrock.	verb (used with object)	18	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
deft	dexterous; nimble; skillful; clever	adjective	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
defunct	no longer in effect or use; not operating or functioning	adjective	16	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
degenerate	to fall below a normal or desirable level in physical, mental, or moral qualities; deteriorate	verb (used without object)	14	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
degradation	the act of 	noun	16	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
dehydrate	to deprive (a chemical compound) of water or the elements of water.	verb (used with object)	15	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
deify	to make a god of; exalt to the rank of a 	verb (used with object)	11	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
deign	to think fit or in accordance with one's dignity; condescend	verb (used without object)	9	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
delete	to strike out or remove (something written or printed); cancel; erase; expunge.	verb (used with object)	8	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
deleterious	injurious to health	adjective	14	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
deliberate	carefully weighed or considered; studied; intentional	adjective	15	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
delineate	to trace the outline of; sketch or trace in outline; represent pictorially	verb (used with object)	12	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
delirium	Pathology. a more or less temporary disorder of the mental faculties, as in fevers, disturbances of consciousness, or intoxication, characterized by restlessness, excitement, delusions, hallucinations, etc.	noun	14	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
delude	to mislead the mind or judgment of; deceive	verb (used with object)	10	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
deluge	a great 	noun	11	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
delusion	an act or instance of 	noun	12	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
delusive	tending to 	adjective	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
delve	to carry on intensive and thorough research for data, information, or the like; investigate	verb (used without object)	11	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
demagogue	a person, especially an orator or political leader, who gains power and popularity by arousing the emotions, passions, and prejudices of the people.	noun	18	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
demean	to lower in dignity, honor, or standing; debase	verb (used with object)	11	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
demeanor	conduct; behavior; deportment.	noun	13	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
demented	crazy; insane; mad.	adjective	14	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
demise	death or decease.	noun	10	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
demographic	of or relating to demography, the science of vital and social statistics.	adjective	25	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
demolition	an act or instance of 	noun	16	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
demoniac	of, relating to, or like a demon; demonic	adjective	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
demotic	of or relating to the ordinary, everyday, current form of a language; vernacular	adjective	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
demur	to make objection, especially on the grounds of scruples; take exception; object	verb (used without object)	10	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
demure	characterized by shyness and modesty; reserved.	adjective	11	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
denigrate	to speak damagingly of; criticize in a derogatory manner; sully; defame	verb (used with object)	13	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
denizen	an inhabitant; resident.	noun	19	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
denomination	a religious group, usually including many local churches, often larger than a sect	noun	19	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
denotation	the explicit or direct meaning or set of meanings of a word or expression, as distinguished from the ideas or meanings associated with it or suggested by it; the association or set of associations that a word usually elicits for most speakers of a language, as distinguished from those elicited for any individual speaker because of personal experience.	noun	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
denouement	the final resolution of the intricacies of a plot, as of a drama or novel.	noun	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
denounce	to condemn or censure openly or publicly	verb (used with object)	15	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
depict	to represent by or as if by painting; portray; delineate.	verb (used with object)	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
deplete	to decrease seriously or exhaust the abundance or supply of	verb (used with object)	12	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
deplore	to regret deeply or strongly; lament	verb (used with object)	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
deploy	Military. to spread out (troops) so as to form an extended front or line.	verb (used with object)	13	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
deport	to expel (an alien) from a country; banish.	verb (used with object)	10	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
depose	to remove from office or position, especially high office	verb (used with object)	10	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
deposition	removal from an office or position.	noun	15	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
depravity	the state of being 	noun	19	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
deprecate	to express earnest disapproval of.	verb (used with object)	16	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
depreciate	to reduce the purchasing value of (money).	verb (used with object)	17	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
depredation	the act of preying upon or plundering; robbery; ravage.	noun	17	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
deputize	to appoint as 	verb (used with object)	22	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
deranged		adjective	13	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
derelict	left or deserted, as by the owner or guardian; abandoned	adjective	13	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
dereliction	deliberate or conscious neglect; negligence; delinquency	noun	17	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
deride	to laugh at in scorn or contempt; scoff or jeer at; mock.	verb (used with object)	8	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
derision	ridicule; mockery	noun	10	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
derivation	the act or fact of deriving or of being derived.	noun	16	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
derivative		adjective	19	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
dermatologist	a specialist in 	noun	20	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
derogatory	tending to lessen the merit or reputation of a person or thing; disparaging; depreciatory	adjective	15	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
descry	to see (something unclear or distant) by looking carefully; discern; espy	verb (used with object)	12	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
desecrate	to divest of sacred or hallowed character or office.	verb (used with object)	13	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
deserts	a region so arid because of little rainfall that it supports only sparse and widely spaced vegetation or no vegetation at all	noun	7	11-All English speakers likely know this word
desiccate	to dry thoroughly; dry up.	verb (used with object)	16	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
desolate	barren or laid waste; devastated	adjective	10	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
desolate	barren or laid waste; devastated	adjective	10	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
desperado	a bold, reckless criminal or outlaw, especially in the early days of the American West.	noun	14	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
desperate	reckless or dangerous because of 	adjective	13	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
despise	to regard with contempt, distaste, disgust, or disdain; scorn; loathe.	verb (used with object)	11	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
despoil	to strip of possessions, things of value, etc.; rob; plunder; pillage.	verb (used with object)	12	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
despondent	feeling or showing profound hopelessness, dejection, discouragement, or gloom	adjective	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
despot	a king or other ruler with absolute, unlimited power; autocrat.	noun	10	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
destitute	without means of subsistence; lacking food, clothing, and shelter.	adjective	11	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
desultory	lacking in consistency, constancy, or visible order, disconnected; fitful	adjective	14	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
detached	not attached; separated	adjective	15	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
detain	to keep from proceeding; keep waiting; delay.	verb (used with object)	8	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
determinate	having defined limits; definite.	adjective	16	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
determination	the act of coming to a decision or of fixing or settling a purpose.	noun	19	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
deterrent	serving or tending to 	adjective	11	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
detonation	the act of 	noun	13	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
detraction	the act of disparaging or belittling the reputation or worth of a person, work, etc.	noun	15	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
detrimental	causing 	adjective	17	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
deviate	to turn aside, as from a route, way, course, etc.	verb (used without object)	12	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
devious	departing from the most direct way; circuitous; indirect	adjective	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
devise	to contrive, plan, or elaborate; invent from existing principles or ideas	verb (used with object)	11	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
devoid	not possessing, untouched by, void, or destitute (usually followed by of).	adjective	12	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
devolve	to transfer or delegate (a duty, responsibility, etc.) to or upon another; pass on.	verb (used with object)	17	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
devotee	a person who is greatly 	noun	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
devout	devoted to divine worship or service; pious; religious	adjective	12	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
dexterous	skillful or adroit in the use of the hands or body.	adjective	18	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
diabolical	having the qualities of a 	adjective	19	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
diadem	a crown.	noun	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
dialectical		adjective	20	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
diaphanous	very sheer and light; almost completely transparent or translucent.	adjective	18	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
diatribe	a bitter, sharply abusive denunciation, attack, or criticism	noun	12	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
dichotomy	division into two parts, kinds, etc.; subdivision into halves or pairs.	noun	20	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
dictum	an authoritative pronouncement; judicial assertion.	noun	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
didactic	intended for instruction; instructive	adjective	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
die	to cease to live; undergo the complete and permanent cessation of all vital functions; become dead.	verb (used without object)	4	5-All English speakers likely know this word
diffidence	the quality or state of being 	noun	22	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
diffuse	to pour out and spread, as a fluid.	verb (used with object)	15	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
dignitary	a person who holds a high rank or office, as in the government or church.	noun	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
digression	the act of 	noun	14	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
dilapidated	reduced to or fallen into partial ruin or decay, as from age, wear, or neglect.	adjective	18	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
dilate	to make wider or larger; cause to expand.	verb (used with object)	8	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
dilatory	tending to delay or procrastinate; slow; tardy.	adjective	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
dilemma	a situation requiring a choice between equally undesirable alternatives.	noun	15	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
dilettante	a person who takes up an art, activity, or subject merely for amusement, especially in a desultory or superficial way; dabbler.	noun	13	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
diligence	constant and earnest effort to accomplish what is undertaken; persistent exertion of body or mind.	noun	17	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
dilute	to make (a liquid) thinner or weaker by the addition of water or the like.	verb (used with object)	9	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
diminution	the act, fact, or process of 	noun	17	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
din	a loud, confused noise; a continued loud or tumultuous sound; noisy clamor.	noun	5	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
dinghy	any small boat designed as a tender or lifeboat, especially a small ship's boat, rowed, sailed, or driven by a motor.	noun	14	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
dingy	of a dark, dull, or dirty color or aspect; lacking brightness or freshness.	adjective	11	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
dint	force; power	noun	6	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
diorama	a scene, often in miniature, reproduced in three dimensions by placing objects, figures, etc., in front of a painted background.	noun	11	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
dire	causing or involving great fear or suffering; dreadful; terrible	adjective	5	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
dirge	a funeral song or tune, or one expressing mourning in commemoration of the dead.	noun	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
disabuse	to free (a person) from deception or error.	verb (used with object)	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
disaffected	discontented and disloyal, as toward the government or toward authority.	adjective	22	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
disapprobation	disapproval; condemnation.	noun	25	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
disarray	to put out of array or order; throw into disorder.	verb (used with object)	11	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
disavowal	a disowning; repudiation; denial.	noun	18	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
disband	to break up or dissolve (an organization)	verb (used with object)	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
disbar	to expel from the legal profession or from the 	verb (used with object)	10	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
disburse	to pay out (money), especially for expenses; expend.	verb (used with object)	13	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
discernible	capable of being 	adjective	20	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
discerning	showing good or outstanding judgment and understanding	adjective	18	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
disclaim	to deny or repudiate interest in or connection with; disavow; disown	verb (used with object)	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
disclose	to make known; reveal or uncover	verb (used with object)	13	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
discombobulated	to confuse or disconcert; upset; frustrate	verb (used with object)	31	79-Few English speakers likely know this word
discomfit	to confuse and deject; disconcert	verb (used with object)	19	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
discompose	to upset the order of; disarrange; disorder; unsettle	verb (used with object)	20	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
disconcert	to disturb the self-possession of; perturb; ruffle	verb (used with object)	18	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
disconsolate	without consolation or solace; hopelessly unhappy; inconsolable	adjective	18	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
discord	lack of concord or harmony between persons or things	noun	12	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
discordant	being at variance; disagreeing; incongruous	adjective	16	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
discount	to deduct a certain amount from (a bill, charge, etc.)	verb (used with object)	14	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
discourse	communication of thought by words; talk; conversation	noun	14	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
discredit	to injure the 	verb (used with object)	14	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
discrepancy	the state or quality of being 	noun	24	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
discrete	apart or detached from others; separate; distinct	adjective	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
discretion	the power or right to decide or act according to one's own judgment; freedom of judgment or choice	noun	15	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
discriminate	to make a distinction in favor of or against a person or thing on the basis of the group, class, or category to which the person or thing belongs rather than according to actual merit; show partiality	verb (used without object)	20	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
discriminating	differentiating; analytical.	adjective	25	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
discursive	passing aimlessly from one subject to another; digressive; rambling.	adjective	19	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
disdain	to look upon or treat with contempt; despise; scorn.	verb (used with object)	10	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
disembark	to go ashore from a ship.	verb (used without object)	20	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
disenfranchise	to disfranchise.	verb (used with object)	25	67-Few English speakers likely know this word
disengage	to release from attachment or connection; loosen; unfasten	verb (used with object)	15	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
disfigure	to mar the appearance or beauty of; deform; deface	verb (used with object)	16	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
disgorge	to eject or throw out from the throat, mouth, or stomach; vomit forth.	verb (used with object)	13	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
disgruntle	to put into a state of sulky dissatisfaction; make discontent.	verb (used with object)	16	67-Few English speakers likely know this word
dishearten	to depress the hope, courage, or spirits of; discourage.	verb (used with object)	14	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
disheveled	hanging loosely or in disorder; unkempt	adjective	19	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
dishonor	lack or loss of honor; disgraceful or dishonest character or conduct.	noun	12	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
disinclination	the absence of 	noun	22	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
disingenuous	lacking in frankness, candor, or sincerity; falsely or hypocritically 	adjective	19	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
disinter	to take out of the place of interment; exhume; unearth.	verb (used with object)	10	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
disinterested	unbiased by personal interest or advantage; not influenced by selfish motives	adjective	16	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
disjointed	having the joints or connections separated	adjective	22	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
disjunction	the act of disjoining or the state of being disjoined	noun	27	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
dislodge	to remove or force out of a particular place	verb (used with object)	13	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
dismantle	to deprive or strip of apparatus, furniture, equipment, defenses, etc.	verb (used with object)	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
dismember	to deprive of limbs; divide limb from limb	verb (used with object)	19	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
dismiss	to direct (an assembly of persons) to disperse or go	verb (used with object)	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
disparage	to speak of or treat slightingly; depreciate; belittle	verb (used with object)	15	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
disparate	distinct in kind; essentially different; dissimilar	adjective	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
disparity	lack of similarity or equality; inequality; difference	noun	15	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
dispassionate	free from or unaffected by passion; devoid of personal feeling or bias; impartial; calm	adjective	18	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
dispatch	to send off or away with speed, as a messenger, telegram, body of troops, etc.	verb (used with object)	17	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
dispel	to drive off in various directions; disperse; dissipate	verb (used with object)	11	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
dispense	to deal out; distribute	verb (used with object)	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
disperse	to drive or send off in various directions; scatter	verb (used with object)	12	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
dispirited	discouraged; dejected; disheartened; gloomy.	adjective	15	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
disport	to divert or amuse (oneself).	verb (used with object)	11	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
disproportion	lack of proportion; lack of proper relationship in size, number, etc.	noun	21	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
disputatious	fond of or given to 	adjective	18	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
disquietude	the state of disquiet; uneasiness.	noun	24	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
disquisition	a formal discourse or treatise in which a subject is examined and discussed; dissertation.	noun	24	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
dissection	the act of 	noun	15	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
dissemble	to give a false or misleading appearance to; conceal the truth or real nature of	verb (used with object)	17	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
disseminate	to scatter or spread widely, as though sowing seed; promulgate extensively; broadcast; disperse	verb (used with object)	16	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
dissension	strong disagreement; a contention or quarrel; discord.	noun	13	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
dissent	to differ in sentiment or opinion, especially from the majority; withhold assent; disagree (often followed by from)	verb (used without object)	9	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
dissertation	a written essay, treatise, or thesis, especially one written by a candidate for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy.	noun	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
dissident	a person who 	noun	12	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
dissimulate	to disguise or conceal under a false appearance; dissemble	verb (used with object)	17	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
dissipate	to scatter in various directions; disperse; dispel.	verb (used with object)	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
dissolution	the act or process of resolving or 	noun	15	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
dissonance	inharmonious or harsh sound; discord; cacophony.	noun	16	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
dissuade	to deter by advice or persuasion; persuade not to do something (often followed by from)	verb (used with object)	11	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
distant	far off or apart in space; not near at hand; remote or removed (often followed by from)	adjective	9	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
distend	to expand by stretching, as something hollow or elastic	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	10	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
distill	to subject to a process of vaporization and subsequent condensation, as for purification or concentration.	verb (used with object)	10	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
distinct		adjective	13	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
distinction	a marking off or 	noun	17	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
distinctive	serving to 	adjective	20	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
distort	to twist awry or out of shape; make crooked or deformed	verb (used with object)	8	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
distract	to draw away or divert, as the mind or attention	verb (used with object)	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
distrait	inattentive because of distracting worries, fears, etc.; absent-minded.	adjective	9	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
distraught	distracted; deeply agitated.	adjective	16	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
diurnal	of or relating to a day or each day; daily.	adjective	11	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
diva	a distinguished female singer; prima donna.	noun	9	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
diverge	to move, lie, or extend in different directions from a common point; branch off.	verb (used without object)	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
diverse	of a different kind, form, character, etc.; unlike	adjective	12	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
diversion	the act of 	noun	15	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
divest	to strip of clothing, ornament, etc.	verb (used with object)	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
divine	of or relating to a god, especially the Supreme Being.	adjective	12	8-All English speakers likely know this word
divulge	to disclose or reveal (something private, secret, or previously unknown).	verb (used with object)	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
docile	easily managed or handled; tractable	adjective	11	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
docket	Also called trial docket. a list of cases in court for trial, or the names of the parties who have cases pending.	noun	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
doctrinaire	a person who tries to apply some 	noun	16	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
doctrine	a particular principle, position, or policy taught or advocated, as of a religion or government	noun	13	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
document	a written or printed paper furnishing information or evidence, as a passport, deed, bill of sale, or bill of lading; a legal or official paper.	noun	17	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
doddering	shaky or trembling, as from old age; tottering	adjective	15	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
doff	to remove or take off, as clothing.	verb (used with object)	11	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
dogged	persistent in effort; stubbornly tenacious	adjective	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
doggerel	   comic or burlesque, and usually loose or irregular in measure.    rude; crude; poor.  	adjective	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
dogmatic	relating to or of the nature of a 	adjective	17	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
doldrums	a state of inactivity or stagnation, as in business or art	noun	15	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
dolorous	full of, expressing, or causing pain or sorrow; grievous; mournful	adjective	11	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
dolt	a dull, stupid person; blockhead.	noun	6	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
domicile	a place of residence; abode; house or home.	noun	16	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
dominant	ruling, governing, or controlling; having or exerting authority or influence	adjective	14	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
dominate	to rule over; govern; control.	verb (used with object)	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
domineer	to rule arbitrarily or despotically; tyrannize.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	13	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
don	(initial capital letter) Mr.; Sir	noun	5	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
doom	fate or destiny, especially adverse fate; unavoidable ill fortune	noun	8	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
dormant	lying asleep or as if asleep; inactive, as in sleep; torpid	adjective	12	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
dormer	Also called dormer window. a vertical window in a projection built out from a sloping roof.	noun	10	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
dorsal	of, relating to, or situated at the back, or dorsum.	adjective	8	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
dossier	a collection or file of documents on the same subject, especially a complete file containing detailed information about a person or topic.	noun	8	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
dotage	a decline of mental faculties, especially as associated with old age; senility.	noun	9	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
dote	to bestow or express excessive love or fondness habitually (usually followed by on or upon)	verb (used without object)	5	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
dour	sullen; gloomy	adjective	6	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
douse	to plunge into water or the like; drench	verb (used with object)	7	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
dowdy	not stylish; drab; old-fashioned	adjective	12	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
downcast	directed downward, as the eyes.	adjective	16	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
dowry	Also, 	noun	11	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
dowse		verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	9	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
doze	to sleep lightly or fitfully.	verb (used without object)	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
drab	dull; cheerless; lacking in spirit, brightness, etc.	adjective	8	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
draconian	of, relating to, or characteristic of the Athenian statesman 	adjective	15	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
draft	a drawing, sketch, or design.	noun	9	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
drama	a composition in prose or verse presenting in dialogue or pantomime a story involving conflict or contrast of character, especially one intended to be acted on the stage; a play.	noun	9	7-All English speakers likely know this word
drastic	acting with force or violence; violent.	adjective	11	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
draught	draughts, (used with a singular verb) British. the game of checkers.	noun	13	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
draw	to cause to move in a particular direction by or as if by a pulling force; pull; drag (often followed by along, away, in, out, or off).	verb (used with object)	8	4-All English speakers likely know this word
dregs	dregs, the sediment of liquids; lees; grounds.	noun	8	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
dribble	to fall or flow in drops or small quantities; trickle.	verb (used without object)	15	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
drip	to let drops fall; shed drops	verb (used without object)	8	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
drivel	saliva flowing from the mouth, or mucus from the nose; slaver.	noun	12	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
droll	amusing in an odd way; whimsically humorous; waggish.	adjective	8	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
drone	the male of the honeybee and other bees, stingless and making no honey.	noun	7	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
drone	the male of the honeybee and other bees, stingless and making no honey.	noun	7	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
droop	to sag, sink, bend, or hang down, as from weakness, exhaustion, or lack of support.	verb (used without object)	9	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
dross	waste matter; refuse.	noun	6	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
drudge	a person who does menial, distasteful, dull, or hard work.	noun	11	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
drudgery	menial, distasteful, dull, or hard work.	noun	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
dubious	doubtful; marked by or occasioning doubt	adjective	13	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
ductile	capable of being hammered out thin, as certain metals; malleable.	adjective	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
dulcet	pleasant to the ear; melodious	adjective	12	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
dull	not sharp; blunt	adjective	8	8-All English speakers likely know this word
dumbfound	to make speechless with amazement; astonish.	verb (used with object)	23	69-Few English speakers likely know this word
dummy	a representation or copy of something, as for displaying to indicate appearance	noun	15	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
dupe	a person who is easily deceived or fooled; gull.	noun	9	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
duplicity	deceitfulness in speech or conduct, as by speaking or acting in two different ways to different people concerning the same matter; double-dealing.  Synonyms	noun	20	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
duration	the length of time something continues or exists (often used with the).	noun	11	8-All English speakers likely know this word
duress	compulsion by threat or force; coercion; constraint.	noun	8	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
dutiful	performing the 	adjective	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
dwindle	to become smaller and smaller; shrink; waste away	verb (used without object)	14	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
dynamic	pertaining to or characterized by energy or effective action; vigorously active or forceful; energetic	adjective	17	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
dynamo	an electric generator, especially for direct current.	noun	13	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
dysentery	Pathology. an infectious disease marked by inflammation and ulceration of the lower part of the bowels, with 	noun	15	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
dyslexia	any of various reading disorders associated with impairment of the ability to interpret spatial relationships or to integrate auditory and visual information.	noun	19	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
dyspeptic	pertaining to, subject to, or suffering from 	adjective	21	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
earthly	of or relating to the 	adjective	12	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
earthy	of the nature of or consisting of 	adjective	10	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
ebb	the flowing back of the tide as the water returns to the sea (opposed to 	noun	9	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
ebullient	overflowing with fervor, enthusiasm, or excitement; high-spirited	adjective	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
eccentric	deviating from the recognized or customary character, practice, etc.; irregular; erratic; peculiar; odd	adjective	19	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
eccentricity	an oddity or peculiarity, as of conduct	noun	24	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
ecclesiastic	a member of the clergy or other person in religious orders.	noun	22	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
eclectic	selecting or choosing from various sources.	adjective	18	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
eclipse	Astronomy.    the obscuration of the light of the moon by the intervention of the earth between it and the sun (lunar eclipse) or the obscuration of the light of the sun by the intervention of the moon between it and a point on the earth (solar eclipse)    a similar phenomenon with respect to any other planet and either its satellite or the sun.    the partial or complete interception of the light of one component of a binary star by the other.  	noun	14	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
ecliptic	Astronomy.    the great circle formed by the intersection of the plane of the earth's orbit with the celestial sphere; the apparent annual path of the sun in the heavens.    an analogous great circle on a terrestrial globe.  	noun	18	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
ecologist	the branch of biology dealing with the relations and interactions between organisms and their environment, including other organisms.	noun	15	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
economy	thrifty management; frugality in the expenditure or consumption of money, materials, etc.	noun	16	10-All English speakers likely know this word
ecosystem	a system, or a group of interconnected elements, formed by the interaction of a community of organisms with their environment.	noun	17	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
ecstasy	rapturous delight.	noun	12	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
eddy	a current at variance with the main current in a stream of liquid or gas, especially one having a rotary or whirling motion.	noun	8	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
edict	a decree issued by a sovereign or other authority.  Synonyms	noun	9	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
edifice	a building, especially one of large size or imposing appearance.	noun	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
edify	to instruct or benefit, especially morally or spiritually; uplift	verb (used with object)	11	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
eerie	uncanny, so as to inspire superstitious fear; weird	adjective	5	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
efface	to wipe out; do away with; expunge	verb (used with object)	15	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
effective	adequate to accomplish a purpose; producing the intended or expected result	adjective	22	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
effectual	producing or capable of producing an intended effect; adequate.	adjective	20	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
effectuate	to bring about; 	verb (used with object)	20	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
effeminate	(of a man or boy) having traits, tastes, habits, etc., traditionally considered feminine, as softness or delicacy.	adjective	20	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
effervescence	to give off bubbles of gas, as fermenting liquors.	verb (used without object)	30	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
effete	lacking in wholesome vigor; degenerate; decadent	adjective	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
efficacy	capacity for producing a desired result or effect; effectiveness	noun	22	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
effigy	a representation or image, especially sculptured, as on a monument.	noun	16	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
effluvium	a slight or invisible exhalation or vapor, especially one that is disagreeable or noxious.	noun	25	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
effrontery	shameless or impudent boldness; barefaced audacity	noun	19	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
effulgent	shining forth brilliantly; radiant.	adjective	20	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
effusion	the act of effusing or pouring forth.	noun	16	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
egoism	the habit of valuing everything only in reference to one's personal interest; selfishness (opposed to 	noun	11	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
egotism	excessive and objectionable reference to oneself in conversation or writing; conceit; boastfulness.	noun	12	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
egotistical	pertaining to or characterized by 	adjective	17	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
egregious	extraordinary in some bad way; glaring; flagrant	adjective	14	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
egress	the act or an instance of going, especially from an enclosed place.	noun	8	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
ejaculation	an abrupt, exclamatory utterance.	noun	26	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
elaborate	worked out with great care and nicety of detail; executed with great minuteness	adjective	13	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
elaboration	an act or instance of 	noun	16	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
elastic	capable of returning to its original length, shape, etc., after being stretched, deformed, compressed, or expanded	adjective	11	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
elated	very happy or proud; jubilant; in high spirits	adjective	8	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
elegy	a mournful, melancholy, or plaintive poem, especially a funeral song or a lament for the dead.	noun	10	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
elevation	the height to which something is elevated or to which it rises	noun	15	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
elicit	to draw or bring out or forth; educe; evoke	verb (used with object)	10	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
elixir	Pharmacology. a sweetened, aromatic solution of alcohol and water containing, or used as a vehicle for, medicinal substances.	noun	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
ellipsis	Grammar.    the omission from a sentence or other construction of one or more words that would complete or clarify the construction, as the omission of who are, while I am, or while we are from I like to interview people sitting down.    the omission of one or more items from a construction in order to avoid repeating the identical or equivalent items that are in a preceding or following construction, as the omission of been to Paris from the second clause of I've been to Paris, but they haven't.  	noun	13	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
elliptical	pertaining to or having the form of an 	adjective	19	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
elope	to run off secretly to be married, usually without the consent or knowledge of one's parents.	verb (used without object)	9	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
eloquence	the practice or art of using language with fluency and aptness.	noun	24	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
elucidate	to make lucid or clear; throw light upon; explain	verb (used with object)	15	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
elusive		adjective	13	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
elysian	of, relating to, or resembling Elysium.	adjective	11	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
Elysium	Also called Elysian Fields. Classical Mythology. the abode of the blessed after death.	noun	0	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
emaciated	marked by 	adjective	16	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
emanate	to flow out, issue, or proceed, as from a source or origin; come forth; originate.  Synonyms	verb (used without object)	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
emancipate	to free from restraint, influence, or the like.	verb (used with object)	20	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
emasculate	to castrate.	verb (used with object)	18	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
embargo	an order of a government prohibiting the movement of merchant ships into or out of its ports.	noun	15	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
embark	to board a ship, aircraft, or other vehicle, as for a journey.	verb (used without object)	16	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
embed	to fix into a surrounding mass	verb (used with object)	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
embellish	to beautify by or as if by ornamentation; ornament; adorn.	verb (used with object)	19	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
embezzlement	to appropriate fraudulently to one's own use, as money or property entrusted to one's care.	verb (used with object)	41	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
embitter	to make 	verb (used with object)	14	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
emblazon	to depict, as on an escutcheon in heraldry.	verb (used with object)	25	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
embody	to give a concrete form to; express, personify, or exemplify in concrete form	verb (used with object)	15	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
emboss	to raise or represent (surface designs) in relief.	verb (used with object)	12	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
embrace	to take or clasp in the arms; press to the bosom; hug.	verb (used with object)	16	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
embroider	to decorate with ornamental needlework.	verb (used with object)	16	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
embroil	to bring into discord or conflict; involve in contention or strife.	verb (used with object)	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
embryonic	pertaining to or in the state of an 	adjective	21	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
emend	to edit or change (a text).	verb (used with object)	10	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
emetic	causing vomiting, as a medicinal substance.	adjective	12	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
eminent	high in station, rank, or repute; prominent; distinguished	adjective	12	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
emissary	a representative sent on a mission or errand	noun	13	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
emollient	having the power of softening or relaxing, as a medicinal substance; soothing, especially to the skin	adjective	15	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
emolument	profit, salary, or fees from office or employment; compensation for services	noun	18	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
empathy	the psychological identification with or vicarious experiencing of the feelings, thoughts, or attitudes of another.	noun	17	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
empirical	derived from or guided by experience or experiment.	adjective	19	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
emulate	to try to equal or excel; imitate with effort to equal or surpass	verb (used with object)	12	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
enact	to make into an act or statute	verb (used with object)	9	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
enamored	to fill or inflame with love (usually used in the passive and followed by of or sometimes with)	verb (used with object)	13	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
encipher	to convert (a message, communication, etc.) into 	verb (used with object)	17	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
encircle	to form a 	verb (used with object)	16	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
enclave	a country, or especially, an outlying portion of a country, entirely or mostly surrounded by the territory of another country.	noun	16	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
encomiastic	a person who utters or writes an encomium; eulogist.	noun	21	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
encompass	to form a circle about; encircle; surround	verb (used with object)	19	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
encroachment	an act or instance of 	noun	25	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
encumber	to impede or hinder; hamper; retard	verb (used with object)	19	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
endear	to make 	verb (used with object)	8	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
endearment	the act of 	noun	16	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
endemic	natural to or characteristic of a specific people or place; native; indigenous	adjective	15	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
endorse	to approve, support, or sustain	verb (used with object)	9	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
endue	to invest or endow with some gift, quality, or faculty.	verb (used with object)	8	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
enduring	lasting; permanent	adjective	14	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
energize	to give 	verb (used with object)	20	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
enervate	to deprive of force or strength; destroy the vigor of; weaken.  Synonyms	verb (used with object)	13	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
enfranchise	to grant a franchise to; admit to citizenship, especially to the right of voting.	verb (used with object)	21	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
engage	to occupy the attention or efforts of (a person or persons)	verb (used with object)	11	7-All English speakers likely know this word
engaged	busy or occupied; involved	adjective	13	11-All English speakers likely know this word
engaging	winning; attractive; pleasing	adjective	16	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
engender	to produce, cause, or give rise to	verb (used with object)	13	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
engross	to occupy completely, as the mind or attention; absorb	verb (used with object)	10	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
engulf	to swallow up in or as in a 	verb (used with object)	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
enhance	to raise to a higher degree; intensify; magnify	verb (used with object)	14	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
enigma	a puzzling or inexplicable occurrence or situation	noun	12	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
enjoin	to prescribe (a course of action) with authority or emphasis	verb (used with object)	17	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
enlist	to enroll, usually voluntarily, for military service	verb (used without object)	8	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
enliven	to make vigorous or active; invigorate	verb (used with object)	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
enmity	a feeling or condition of hostility; hatred; ill will; animosity; antagonism.	noun	12	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
ennui	a feeling of utter weariness and discontent resulting from satiety or lack of interest; boredom	noun	8	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
enormity	outrageous or heinous character; atrociousness	noun	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
enrapture	to move to 	verb (used with object)	14	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
ensconce	to settle securely or snugly	verb (used with object)	16	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
ensue	to follow in order; come afterward, especially in immediate succession	verb (used without object)	7	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
entail	to cause or involve by necessity or as a consequence	verb (used with object)	8	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
enterprise	a project undertaken or to be undertaken, especially one that is important or difficult or that requires boldness or energy	noun	14	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
enterprising	ready to undertake projects of importance or difficulty, or untried schemes; energetic in carrying out any undertaking	adjective	19	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
enthrall	to captivate or charm	verb (used with object)	13	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
entice	to lead on by exciting hope or desire; allure; inveigle	verb (used with object)	10	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
entity	something that has a real existence; thing	noun	9	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
entomology	the branch of zoology dealing with insects.	noun	19	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
entourage	a group of attendants or associates, as of a person of rank or importance	noun	13	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
entrance	an act of entering, as into a place or upon new duties.	noun	13	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
entreat	to ask (a person) earnestly; beseech; implore; beg	verb (used with object)	8	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
entree	a dish served as the main course of a meal.	noun	7	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
entrepreneur	a person who organizes and manages any enterprise, especially a business, usually with considerable initiative and risk.	noun	18	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
enumerate	to mention separately as if in counting; name one by one; specify, as in a list	verb (used with object)	14	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
enunciate	to utter or pronounce (words, sentences, etc.), especially in an articulate or a particular manner	verb (used with object)	15	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
environ	to form a circle or ring round; surround; envelop	verb (used with object)	13	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
eon	an indefinitely long period of time; age.	noun	4	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
epaulet	an ornamental shoulder piece worn on uniforms, chiefly by military officers.	noun	12	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
ephemeral	lasting a very short time; short-lived; transitory	adjective	18	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
epic	noting or pertaining to a long poetic composition, usually centered upon a hero, in which a series of great achievements or events is narrated in elevated style	adjective	10	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
epicure	a person who cultivates a refined taste, especially in food and wine; connoisseur.	noun	14	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
Epicurean	fond of or adapted to luxury or indulgence in sensual pleasures; having luxurious tastes or habits, especially in eating and drinking.	adjective	17	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
epigram	any witty, ingenious, or pointed saying tersely expressed.	noun	15	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
epilogue	a concluding part added to a literary work, as a novel.	noun	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
episodic	pertaining to or of the nature of an 	adjective	15	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
epistemologist	a branch of philosophy that investigates the origin, nature, methods, and limits of human knowledge.	noun	23	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
epitaph	a commemorative inscription on a tomb or mortuary monument about the person buried at that site.	noun	15	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
epithet	any word or phrase applied to a person or thing to describe an actual or attributed quality	noun	12	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
epitome	a person or thing that is typical of or possesses to a high degree the features of a whole class	noun	13	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
epoch	a particular period of time marked by distinctive features, events, etc.	noun	13	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
equable	free from many changes or variations; uniform	adjective	21	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
equanimity	mental or emotional stability or composure, especially under tension or strain; calmness; equilibrium.	noun	26	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
equestrian	of or relating to horseback riding or horseback riders	adjective	21	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
equilibrium	a state of rest or balance due to the equal action of opposing forces.	noun	29	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
equine	of, relating to, or resembling a horse	adjective	17	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
equinox	the time when the sun crosses the plane of the earth's equator, making night and day of approximately equal length all over the earth and occurring about March 21 (vernal equinox or spring equinox) and September 22 (autumnal equinox)	noun	25	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
equipoise	an equal distribution of weight; even balance; equilibrium.	noun	22	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
equitable	characterized by equity or fairness; just and right; fair; reasonable	adjective	23	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
equity	the quality of being fair or impartial; fairness; impartiality	noun	18	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
equivocal	allowing the possibility of several different meanings, as a word or phrase, especially with intent to deceive or misguide; susceptible of double interpretation; deliberately ambiguous	adjective	27	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
equivocate	to use ambiguous or unclear expressions, usually to avoid commitment or in order to mislead; prevaricate or hedge	verb (used without object)	27	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
erode	to eat into or away; destroy by slow consumption or disintegration	verb (used with object)	6	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
erotic	arousing or satisfying sexual desire	adjective	9	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
errant	deviating from the regular or proper course; 	adjective	7	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
erratic	deviating from the usual or proper course in conduct or opinion; eccentric; queer	adjective	10	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
erroneous	containing error; mistaken; incorrect; wrong	adjective	11	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
erudite	characterized by great knowledge; learned or scholarly	adjective	9	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
escapade	a reckless adventure or wild prank.	noun	15	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
eschew	to abstain or keep away from; shun; avoid	verb (used with object)	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
esoteric	understood by or meant for only the select few who have special knowledge or interest; recondite	adjective	11	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
espionage	the act or practice of spying.	noun	15	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
espouse	to make one's own; adopt or embrace, as a cause.	verb (used with object)	11	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
esteem	to regard highly or favorably; regard with respect or admiration	verb (used with object)	9	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
estranged	displaying or evincing a feeling of alienation; alienated.	adjective	13	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
ethereal	light, airy, or tenuous	adjective	11	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
ethnic	pertaining to or characteristic of a people, especially a group (ethnic group) sharing a common and distinctive culture, religion, language, or the like.	adjective	12	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
ethnology	a branch of anthropology that analyzes cultures, especially in regard to their historical development and the similarities and dissimilarities between them.	noun	17	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
ethos	Sociology. the fundamental character or spirit of a culture; the underlying sentiment that informs the beliefs, customs, or practices of a group or society; dominant assumptions of a people or period	noun	7	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
etymology	the derivation of a word.  Synonyms	noun	19	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
eugenic	of or bringing about improvement in the type of offspring produced.	adjective	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
eulogistic	pertaining to or containing 	adjective	17	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
eulogy	a speech or writing in praise of a person or thing, especially a set oration in honor of a deceased person.	noun	12	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
euphemism	the substitution of a mild, indirect, or vague expression for one thought to be offensive, harsh, or blunt.	noun	21	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
euphony	agreeableness of sound; pleasing effect to the ear, especially a pleasant sounding or harmonious combination or succession of words	noun	16	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
euphoria	a state of intense happiness and self-confidence	noun	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
euthanasia	Also called 	noun	14	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
evanescent	vanishing; fading away; fleeting.	adjective	19	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
evasive	tending or seeking to 	adjective	15	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
evenhanded	impartial; equitable	adjective	20	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
eventual	happening at some indefinite future time or after a series of occurrences; ultimate	adjective	15	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
evince	to show clearly; make evident or manifest; prove.	verb (used with object)	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
evocative	tending to 	adjective	20	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
evoke	to call up or produce (memories, feelings, etc.)	verb (used with object)	13	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
ewe	a female sheep, especially when fully mature.	noun	6	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
exacerbate	to increase the severity, bitterness, or violence of (disease, ill feeling, etc.); aggravate.	verb (used with object)	23	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
exact	strictly accurate or correct	adjective	15	9-All English speakers likely know this word
exacting	rigid or severe in demands or requirements	adjective	21	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
exalt	to raise in rank, honor, power, character, quality, etc.; elevate	verb (used with object)	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
exasperate	to irritate or provoke to a high degree; annoy extremely	verb (used with object)	20	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
except	with the exclusion of; excluding; save; but	preposition	19	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
exceptionable	liable to 	adjective	31	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
excerpt	a passage or quotation taken or selected from a book, document, film, or the like; extract.	noun	20	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
exchequer	a treasury, as of a state or nation.	noun	31	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
excise	an internal tax or duty on certain commodities, as liquor or tobacco, levied on their manufacture, sale, or consumption within the country.	noun	16	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
exclaim	to cry out or speak suddenly and vehemently, as in surprise, strong emotion, or protest.	verb (used without object)	21	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
excoriate	to denounce or berate severely; flay verbally	verb (used with object)	19	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
exculpate	to clear from a charge of guilt or fault; free from blame; vindicate.	verb (used with object)	24	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
execrable	utterly detestable; abominable; abhorrent.	adjective	23	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
execrate	to detest utterly; abhor; abominate.	verb (used with object)	18	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
execute	to carry out; accomplish	verb (used with object)	18	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
executioner	an official who inflicts capital punishment in pursuance of a legal warrant.	noun	23	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
executive	a person or group of persons having administrative or supervisory authority in an organization.	noun	24	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
executor	a person who 	noun	19	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
exegesis	critical explanation or interpretation of a text or portion of a text, especially of the Bible.	noun	17	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
exemplary	worthy of imitation; commendable	adjective	25	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
exemplify	to show or illustrate by 	verb (used with object)	28	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
exempt	to free from an obligation or liability to which others are subject; release	verb (used with object)	19	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
exertion	vigorous action or effort	noun	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
exhale	to emit breath or vapor; breathe out.	verb (used without object)	16	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
exhilarating	to enliven; invigorate; stimulate	verb (used with object)	25	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
exhort	to urge, advise, or caution earnestly; admonish urgently.	verb (used with object)	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
exhume	to dig (something buried, especially a dead body) out of the earth; disinter.	verb (used with object)	19	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
exigency		noun	23	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
exiguous	scanty; meager; small; slender	adjective	19	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
existential	pertaining to 	adjective	20	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
exodus	a going out; a departure or emigration, usually of a large number of people	noun	15	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
exonerate	to clear, as of an accusation; free from guilt or blame; exculpate	verb (used with object)	17	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
exorbitant	exceeding the bounds of custom, propriety, or reason, especially in amount or extent; highly excessive	adjective	21	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
exorcise	to seek to expel (an evil spirit) by adjuration or religious or solemn ceremonies	verb (used with object)	18	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
exotic	of foreign origin or character; not native; introduced from abroad, but not fully naturalized or acclimatized	adjective	16	10-All English speakers likely know this word
expansive	having a wide range or extent; comprehensive; extensive	adjective	24	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
expatiate	to enlarge in discourse or writing; be copious in description or discussion	verb (used without object)	19	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
expatriate	to banish (a person) from his or her native country.	verb (used with object)	20	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
expedient	tending to promote some proposed or desired object; fit or suitable for the purpose; proper under the circumstances	adjective	21	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
expedite	to speed up the progress of; hasten	verb (used with object)	19	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
expeditious	characterized by promptness; quick	adjective	23	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
expenditure	the act of 	noun	24	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
expertise		noun	19	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
expiate	to atone for; make amends or reparation for	verb (used with object)	17	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
expletive	an interjectory word or expression, frequently profane; an exclamatory oath.	noun	24	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
explicate	to make plain or clear; explain; interpret.	verb (used with object)	23	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
explicit	fully and clearly expressed or demonstrated; leaving nothing merely implied; unequivocal	adjective	22	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
exploit	a striking or notable deed; feat; spirited or heroic act	noun	18	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
exploit	a striking or notable deed; feat; spirited or heroic act	noun	18	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
expose	to lay open to danger, attack, harm, etc.	verb (used with object)	16	9-All English speakers likely know this word
expository	of the nature of exposition; serving to 	adjective	22	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
expostulation	the act of 	noun	26	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
exposure	the act of exposing, laying open, or uncovering	noun	19	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
expound	to set forth or state in detail	verb (used with object)	20	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
expropriate	to take possession of, especially for public use by the right of eminent domain, thus divesting the title of the private owner	verb (used with object)	24	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
expunge	to strike or blot out; erase; obliterate.	verb (used with object)	21	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
expurgate	to amend by removing words, passages, etc., deemed offensive or objectionable	verb (used with object)	22	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
exquisite	of special beauty or charm, or rare and appealing excellence, as a face, a flower, coloring, music, or poetry.	adjective	26	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
extant	in existence; still existing; not destroyed or lost	adjective	14	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
extemporaneous	done, spoken, performed, etc., without special advance preparation; impromptu	adjective	29	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
extenuate	to represent (a fault, offense, etc.) as less serious	verb (used with object)	18	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
extirpate	to remove or destroy totally; do away with; exterminate.	verb (used with object)	19	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
extol	to praise highly; laud; eulogize	verb (used with object)	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
extort	Law.    to wrest or wring (money, information, etc.) from a person by violence, intimidation, or abuse of authority; obtain by force, torture, threat, or the like.    to take illegally by reason of one's office.  	verb (used with object)	13	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
extradition	the procedure by which a state or nation, upon receipt of a formal request by another state or nation, turns over to that second jurisdiction an individual charged with or convicted of a crime in that jurisdiction.	noun	20	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
extraneous	introduced or coming from without; not belonging or proper to a thing; external; foreign	adjective	19	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
extrapolate	to infer (an unknown) from something that is known; conjecture.	verb (used with object)	22	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
extricate	to free or release from entanglement; disengage	verb (used with object)	19	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
extrinsic	not essential or inherent; not a basic part or quality; extraneous	adjective	20	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
extrovert	an outgoing, gregarious person.	noun	20	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
extrude	to thrust out; force or press out; expel	verb (used with object)	16	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
exuberance	Also, exuberancy. the state of being 	noun	25	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
exude	to come out gradually in drops, as sweat, through pores or small openings; ooze out.	verb (used without object)	14	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
exult	to show or feel a lively or triumphant joy; rejoice exceedingly; be highly elated or jubilant	verb (used without object)	14	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
fabricate	to make by art or skill and labor; construct	verb (used with object)	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
facade	Architecture.    the front of a building, especially an imposing or decorative one.    any side of a building facing a public way or space and finished accordingly.  	noun	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
facet	one of the small, polished plane surfaces of a cut gem.	noun	11	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
facetious	not meant to be taken seriously or literally	adjective	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
facile	moving, acting, working, proceeding, etc., with ease, sometimes with superficiality	adjective	13	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
facilitate	to make easier or less difficult; help forward (an action, a process, etc.)	verb (used with object)	17	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
facsimile	an exact copy, as of a book, painting, or manuscript.	noun	19	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
faction	a group or clique within a larger group, party, government, organization, or the like	noun	14	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
factious	given to 	adjective	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
factitious	not spontaneous or natural; artificial; contrived	adjective	17	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
factotum	a person, as a handyman or servant, employed to do all kinds of work around the house.	noun	18	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
faculty	an ability, natural or acquired, for a particular kind of action	noun	17	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
fake	prepare or make (something specious, deceptive, or fraudulent)	verb (used with object)	11	9-All English speakers likely know this word
fallacious	containing a 	adjective	19	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
fallible	(of persons) liable to err, especially in being deceived or mistaken.	adjective	17	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
fallow	(of land) plowed and left unseeded for a season or more; uncultivated.	adjective	14	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
falsify	to make false or incorrect, especially so as to deceive	verb (used with object)	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
falter	to hesitate or waver in action, purpose, intent, etc.; give way	verb (used without object)	10	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
fanaticism	fanatical character, spirit, or conduct.	noun	20	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
fancied	unreal; imaginary	adjective	15	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
fancier	a person having a liking for or interest in something; enthusiast	noun	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
fanciful	characterized by or showing 	adjective	20	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
fancy	imagination or fantasy, especially as exercised in a capricious manner.	noun	14	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
fanfare	a flourish or short air played on trumpets or the like.	noun	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
farce	a light, humorous play in which the plot depends upon a skillfully exploited situation rather than upon the development of character.	noun	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
far-fetched	improbable; not naturally pertinent; being only remotely connected; forced; strained	adjective	6	73-Few English speakers likely know this word
fashion	a prevailing custom or style of dress, etiquette, socializing, etc.	noun	13	10-All English speakers likely know this word
fastidious	excessively particular, critical, or demanding; hard to please	adjective	15	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
fatalism	the acceptance of all things and events as inevitable; submission to fate	noun	15	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
fathom	a unit of length equal to six feet (1.8 meters)	noun	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
fathomless	impossible to measure the depth of; bottomless.	adjective	19	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
fatuous	foolish or inane, especially in an unconscious, complacent manner; silly.	adjective	12	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
fauna	the animals of a given region or period considered as a whole.	noun	10	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
favoritism	the favoring of one person or group over others with equal claims; partiality	noun	20	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
fawning	a young deer, especially an unweaned one.	noun	17	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
faze	to cause to be disturbed or disconcerted; daunt	verb (used with object)	16	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
feasible	capable of being done, effected, or accomplished	adjective	15	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
feature	a prominent or conspicuous part or characteristic	noun	11	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
febrile	pertaining to or marked by fever; feverish.	adjective	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
fecundity	the quality of being 	noun	20	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
feebleminded	lacking the normal mental powers.	adjective	25	82-Few English speakers likely know this word
feign	to represent fictitiously; put on an appearance of	verb (used with object)	11	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
feint	a movement made in order to deceive an adversary; an attack aimed at one place or point merely as a distraction from the real place or point of attack	noun	9	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
felicitous	well-suited for the occasion, as an action, manner, or expression; apt; appropriate	adjective	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
felicity	the state of being happy, especially in a high degree; bliss	noun	17	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
feline	belonging or pertaining to the cat family, Felidae.	adjective	11	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
fell	simple past tense of 	verb	9	7-All English speakers likely know this word
fell	simple past tense of 	verb	9	7-All English speakers likely know this word
felon	Law. a person who has committed a felony.	noun	10	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
feral	existing in a natural state, as animals or plants; not domesticated or cultivated; wild.	adjective	9	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
ferment	Also called organized ferment. any of a group of living organisms, as yeasts, molds, and certain bacteria, that cause 	noun	14	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
fermentation	the act or process of 	noun	20	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
ferocious	savagely fierce, as a wild beast, person, action, or aspect; violently cruel	adjective	16	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
ferret	a domesticated, usually red-eyed, and albinic variety of the polecat, used in Europe for driving rabbits and rats from their burrows.	noun	9	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
fertile	bearing, producing, or capable of producing vegetation, crops, etc., abundantly; prolific	adjective	11	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
fervent	having or showing great warmth or intensity of spirit, feeling, enthusiasm, etc.; ardent	adjective	15	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
fervid	heated or vehement in spirit, enthusiasm, etc.	adjective	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
fervor	great warmth and earnestness of feeling	noun	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
fester	to form pus; generate purulent matter; suppurate.	verb (used without object)	9	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
festive	pertaining to or suitable for a feast or 	adjective	14	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
fete	a day of celebration; holiday	noun	7	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
fetid	having an offensive odor; stinking.	adjective	9	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
fetish	an object regarded with awe as being the embodiment or habitation of a potent spirit or as having magical potency.	noun	11	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
fetter	a chain or shackle placed on the feet.	noun	9	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
feud	Also called 	noun	9	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
fiasco	a complete and ignominious failure.	noun	12	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
fiat	an authoritative decree, sanction, or order	noun	7	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
fickle	likely to change, especially due to caprice, irresolution, or instability; casually changeable	adjective	17	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
fictitious	created, taken, or assumed for the sake of concealment; not genuine; false	adjective	17	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
fidelity	strict observance of promises, duties, etc.	noun	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
fiend	Satan; the devil.	noun	10	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
figment	a mere product of mental invention; a fantastic notion	noun	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
figurative	of the nature of or involving a 	adjective	20	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
figure	a numerical symbol, especially an Arabic numeral.	noun	12	8-All English speakers likely know this word
figurine	a small ornamental figure of pottery, metal, plastic, etc.; statuette.	noun	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
filch	to steal (especially something of small value); pilfer	verb (used with object)	14	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
filial	of, relating to, or befitting a son or daughter	adjective	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
filibuster	U.S. Politics.    the use of irregular or obstructive tactics by a member of a legislative assembly to prevent the adoption of a measure generally favored or to force a decision against the will of the majority.    an exceptionally long speech, as one lasting for a day or days, or a series of such speeches to accomplish this purpose.    a member of a legislature who makes such a speech.  	noun	18	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
filigree	delicate ornamental work of fine silver, gold, or other metal wires, especially lacy jewelers' work of scrolls and arabesques.	noun	14	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
filing	a folder, cabinet, or other container in which papers, letters, etc., are arranged in convenient order for storage or reference.	noun	13	6-All English speakers likely know this word
filth	offensive or disgusting dirt or refuse; foul matter	noun	11	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
finale	the last piece, division, or movement of a concert, opera, or composition.	noun	11	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
finery		noun	12	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
finesse	extreme delicacy or subtlety in action, performance, skill, discrimination, taste, etc.	noun	11	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
finicky	excessively particular or fastidious; difficult to please; fussy.	adjective	20	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
finish	to bring (something) to an end or to completion; complete	verb (used with object)	12	6-All English speakers likely know this word
finished	ended or completed.	adjective	15	10-All English speakers likely know this word
finite	having bounds or limits; not infinite; measurable.	adjective	10	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
firebrand	a piece of burning wood or other material.	noun	17	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
fissure	a narrow opening produced by 	noun	11	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
fit	adapted or suited; appropriate	adjective	6	2-All English speakers likely know this word
fitful	coming, appearing, acting, etc., in 	adjective	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
flaccid	soft and limp; not firm; flabby	adjective	18	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
flag	a piece of cloth, varying in size, shape, color, and design, usually attached at one edge to a staff or cord, and used as the symbol of a nation, state, or organization, as a means of signaling, etc.; ensign; standard; banner; pennant.	noun	10	7-All English speakers likely know this word
flagrant	shockingly noticeable or evident; obvious; glaring	adjective	15	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
flail	an instrument for threshing grain, consisting of a staff or handle to one end of which is attached a freely swinging stick or bar.	noun	10	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
flair	a natural talent, aptitude, or ability; bent; knack	noun	9	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
flamboyant	strikingly bold or brilliant; showy	adjective	23	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
flashy	sparkling or brilliant, especially in a superficial way or for the moment	adjective	14	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
flaunt	to parade or display oneself conspicuously, defiantly, or boldly.	verb (used without object)	12	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
flay	to strip off the skin or outer covering of.	verb (used with object)	10	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
fleck	a speck; a small bit	noun	16	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
fledgling	a young bird just 	noun	20	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
fleece	the coat of wool that covers a sheep or a similar animal.	noun	13	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
fleet	the largest organized unit of naval ships grouped for tactical or other purposes.	noun	9	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
flick	a sudden light blow or tap, as with a whip or the finger	noun	16	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
flicker	to burn unsteadily; shine with a wavering light	verb (used without object)	18	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
flighty	given to 	adjective	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
flinch	to draw back or shrink, as from what is dangerous, difficult, or unpleasant.	verb (used without object)	16	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
flip	to toss or put in motion with a sudden impulse, as with a snap of a finger and thumb, especially so as to cause to turn over in the air	verb (used with object)	11	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
flippant	frivolously disrespectful, shallow, or lacking in seriousness; characterized by levity	adjective	19	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
flirt	to court triflingly or act amorously without serious intentions; play at love; coquet.	verb (used without object)	9	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
flit	to move lightly and swiftly; fly, dart, or skim along	verb (used without object)	8	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
floe	Also called 	noun	8	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
flora	the plants of a particular region or period, listed by species and considered as a whole.	noun	9	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
florescence	the act, state, or period of flowering; bloom.	noun	22	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
florid	reddish; ruddy; rosy	adjective	11	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
flotsam	the part of the wreckage of a ship and its cargo found floating on the water.  Compare  	noun	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
flounder	to struggle with stumbling or plunging movements (usually followed by about, along, on, through, etc.)	verb (used without object)	15	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
flourish	to be in a vigorous state; thrive	verb (used without object)	15	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
flout	to treat with disdain, scorn, or contempt; scoff at; mock	verb (used with object)	10	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
flowery	covered with or having many 	adjective	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
fluctuate	to change continually; shift back and forth; vary irregularly	verb (used without object)	18	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
fluency	spoken or written with ease	adjective	18	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
fluke	the part of an anchor that catches in the ground, especially the flat triangular piece at the end of each arm.	noun	14	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
flush	a blush; rosy glow	noun	12	10-All English speakers likely know this word
fluster	to put into a state of agitated confusion	verb (used with object)	12	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
fluted	fine, clear, and mellow; flutelike	adjective	12	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
flutter	to wave, flap, or toss about	verb (used without object)	12	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
flux	a flowing or flow.	noun	16	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
fodder	coarse food for livestock, composed of entire plants, including leaves, stalks, and grain, of such forages as corn and sorghum.	noun	11	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
foible	a minor weakness or failing of character; slight flaw or defect	noun	13	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
foil	to prevent the success of; frustrate; balk	verb (used with object)	8	11-All English speakers likely know this word
foil	to prevent the success of; frustrate; balk	verb (used with object)	8	11-All English speakers likely know this word
foist	to force upon or impose fraudulently or unjustifiably (usually followed by on or upon)	verb (used with object)	8	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
foliage	the leaves of a plant, collectively; leafage.	noun	13	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
foment	to instigate or foster (discord, rebellion, etc.); promote the growth or development of	verb (used with object)	13	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
foolhardy	recklessly or thoughtlessly bold; foolishly rash or venturesome.	adjective	18	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
foppish	resembling or befitting a 	adjective	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
foray	a quick raid, usually for the purpose of taking plunder	noun	10	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
forbearance	the act of 	noun	21	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
ford	a place where a river or other body of water is shallow enough to be crossed by wading.	noun	8	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
forebears	Usually, forebears. ancestors; forefathers.	noun	15	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
foreboding	a prediction; portent.	noun	20	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
forensic	pertaining to, connected with, or used in courts of law or public discussion and debate.	adjective	15	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
forerunner	predecessor; ancestor; forebear; precursor.	noun	16	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
foreshadow	to show or indicate beforehand; prefigure	verb (used with object)	19	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
foresight	care or provision for the future; provident care; prudence.	noun	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
forestall	to prevent, hinder, or thwart by action in advance	verb (used with object)	14	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
forfeit	a fine; penalty.	noun	13	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
forge	to form by heating and hammering; beat into shape.	verb (used with object)	10	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
forgo	to abstain or refrain from; do without.	verb (used with object)	10	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
forlorn	desolate or dreary; unhappy or miserable, as in feeling, condition, or appearance.	adjective	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
formality	condition or quality of being 	noun	18	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
formidable	causing fear, apprehension, or dread	adjective	21	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
forsake	to quit or leave entirely; abandon; desert	verb (used with object)	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
forswear	to reject or renounce under oath	verb (used with object)	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
forte	a person's strong suit, or most highly developed characteristic, talent, or skill; something that one excels in	noun	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
forthcoming		adjective	25	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
forthright	going straight to the point; frank; direct; outspoken	adjective	19	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
fortitude	mental and emotional strength in facing difficulty, adversity, danger, or temptation courageously	noun	14	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
fortuitous	happening or produced by chance; accidental	adjective	15	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
forum	the marketplace or public square of an ancient Roman city, the center of judicial and business affairs and a place of assembly for the people.	noun	12	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
forward	toward or at a place, point, or time in advance; onward; 	adverb	14	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
foster	to promote the growth or development of; further; encourage	verb (used with object)	9	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
foul	grossly offensive to the senses; disgustingly loathsome; noisome	adjective	9	11-All English speakers likely know this word
founder	a person who 	noun	13	7-All English speakers likely know this word
founder	a person who 	noun	13	7-All English speakers likely know this word
fracas	a noisy, disorderly disturbance or fight; riotous brawl; uproar.	noun	12	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
fractious	refractory or unruly	adjective	16	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
frail	having delicate health; not robust; weak	adjective	9	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
franchise	a privilege of a public nature conferred on an individual, group, or company by a government	noun	18	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
frantic	desperate or wild with excitement, passion, fear, pain, etc.; frenzied.	adjective	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
fraudulent	characterized by, involving, or proceeding from 	adjective	18	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
fraught	Archaic. filled or laden (with)	adjective	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
fray	a fight, battle, or skirmish.  Synonyms	noun	9	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
freebooter	a person who goes about in search of plunder; pirate; buccaneer.	noun	16	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
frenetic		adjective	15	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
frenzied	wildly excited or enthusiastic	adjective	22	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
fresco	Also called 	noun	12	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
fret	to feel or express worry, annoyance, discontent, or the like	verb (used without object)	7	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
friction	surface resistance to relative motion, as of a body sliding or rolling.	noun	15	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
frieze	Architecture.    the part of a classical entablature between the architrave and the cornice, usually decorated with sculpture in low relief.    any decorative band on an outside wall, broader than a stringcourse and bearing lettering, sculpture, etc.  	noun	18	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
frigid	very cold in temperature	adjective	12	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
fringe	a decorative border of thread, cord, or the like, usually hanging loosely from a raveled edge or separate strip.	noun	12	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
frisk	to dance, leap, skip, or gambol; frolic	verb (used without object)	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
fritter	to squander or disperse piecemeal; waste little by little (usually followed by away)	verb (used with object)	10	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
frivolous	characterized by lack of seriousness or sense	adjective	18	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
frock	a gown or dress worn by a girl or woman.	noun	15	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
frolic	merry play; merriment; gaiety; fun.	noun	13	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
frolicsome	merrily playful; full of fun.	adjective	20	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
frond	an often large, finely divided leaf, especially as applied to the ferns and certain palms.	noun	10	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
fructify	to bear 	verb (used without object)	20	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
frugal	economical in use or expenditure; prudently saving or sparing; not wasteful	adjective	13	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
fruitful	producing good results; beneficial; profitable	adjective	17	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
fruition	attainment of anything desired; realization; accomplishment	noun	13	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
frustrate	to make (plans, efforts, etc.) worthless or of no avail; defeat; nullify	verb (used with object)	13	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
fuddle	to muddle or confuse	verb (used with object)	13	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
fugitive	a person who is fleeing, from prosecution, intolerable circumstances, etc.; a runaway	noun	18	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
fulcrum	the support, or point of rest, on which a lever turns in moving a body.	noun	19	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
fulminate	to explode with a loud noise; detonate.	verb (used without object)	18	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
fulsome	offensive to good taste, especially as being excessive; overdone or gross	adjective	15	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
fumble	to feel or grope about clumsily	verb (used without object)	17	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
functional	of or relating to a 	adjective	20	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
functionary	a person who 	noun	22	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
fundamental	serving as, or being an essential part of, a foundation or basis; basic; underlying	adjective	22	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
funereal	of or suitable for a 	adjective	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
furor	a general outburst of enthusiasm, excitement, controversy, or the like.	noun	9	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
furrow	a narrow groove made in the ground, especially by a plow.	noun	13	10-All English speakers likely know this word
furtive	taken, done, used, etc., surreptitiously or by stealth; secret	adjective	15	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
fusillade	a simultaneous or continuous discharge of firearms.	noun	16	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
fusion	the act or process of fusing; the state of being fused.	noun	11	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
fuss	an excessive display of anxious attention or activity; needless or useless bustle	noun	8	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
fussy	excessively busy with trifles; anxious or particular about petty details.	adjective	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
futile	incapable of producing any result; ineffective; useless; not successful	adjective	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
gadfly	any of various 	noun	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
gaffe	a social blunder; faux pas.	noun	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
gainsay	to deny, dispute, or contradict.	verb (used with object)	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
gait	a manner of walking, stepping, or running.	noun	6	8-All English speakers likely know this word
galaxy	Astronomy.    a large system of stars held together by mutual gravitation and isolated from similar systems by vast regions of space.    (usually initial capital letter) 	noun	18	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
gale	a very strong wind.	noun	7	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
gall	impudence; effrontery.	noun	8	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
galleon	a large sailing vessel of the 15th to the 17th centuries used as a fighting or merchant ship, square-rigged on the foremast and mainmast and generally lateen-rigged on one or two after masts.	noun	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
galley	a kitchen or an area with kitchen facilities in a ship, plane, or camper.	noun	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
gallows	a wooden frame, consisting of a crossbeam on two uprights, on which condemned persons are executed by hanging.	noun	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
galvanic	pertaining to or produced by 	adjective	19	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
galvanize	to stimulate by or as if by a 	verb (used with object)	26	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
gambit	Chess. an opening in which a player seeks to obtain some advantage by sacrificing a pawn or piece.	noun	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
gambol	to skip about, as in dancing or playing; frolic.	verb (used without object)	15	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
gamely	in a 	adverb	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
gamut	the entire scale or range	noun	11	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
gangrene	necrosis or death of soft tissue due to obstructed circulation, usually followed by decomposition and putrefaction.	noun	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
gape	to stare with open mouth, as in wonder.	verb (used without object)	9	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
garbled	to confuse unintentionally or ignorantly; jumble	verb (used with object)	14	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
gargantuan	gigantic; enormous; colossal	adjective	17	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
gargoyle	a grotesquely carved figure of a human or animal.	noun	15	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
garish	crudely or tastelessly colorful, showy, or elaborate, as clothes or decoration.	adjective	10	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
garner	to gather or deposit in or as if in a granary or other storage place.	verb (used with object)	9	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
garnish	to provide or supply with something ornamental; adorn; decorate.	verb (used with object)	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
garrulous	excessively talkative in a rambling, roundabout manner, especially about trivial matters.	adjective	14	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
gastronomy	the art or science of good eating.	noun	18	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
gauche	lacking social grace, sensitivity, or acuteness; awkward; crude; tactless	adjective	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
gaudy	brilliantly or excessively showy	adjective	11	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
gaunt	extremely thin and bony; haggard and drawn, as from great hunger, weariness, or torture; emaciated.	adjective	9	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
gavel	a small mallet used by the presiding officer of a meeting, a judge, etc., usually to signal for attention or order.	noun	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
gawk	to stare stupidly; gape	verb (used without object)	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
gazette	a newspaper (now used chiefly in the names of newspapers)	noun	18	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
genealogy	a record or account of the ancestry and descent of a person, family, group, etc.	noun	17	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
generality	an indefinite, unspecific, or undetailed statement	noun	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
generate	to bring into existence; cause to be; produce.	verb (used with object)	11	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
generic	of, applicable to, or referring to all the members of a 	adjective	13	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
genesis	an origin, creation, or beginning.	noun	10	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
geniality	warmly and pleasantly cheerful; cordial	adjective	15	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
genre	a class or category of artistic endeavor having a particular form, content, technique, or the like	noun	8	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
genteel	belonging or suited to polite society.	adjective	11	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
gentility	good breeding or refinement.	noun	15	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
gentle	kindly; amiable	adjective	10	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
gentry	wellborn and well-bred people.	noun	11	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
genuflect	to bend the knee or touch one knee to the floor in reverence or worship.	verb (used without object)	20	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
genus	Biology. the usual major subdivision of a family or subfamily in the classification of organisms, usually consisting of more than one species.	noun	9	8-All English speakers likely know this word
geriatrics	the branch of medicine dealing with the diseases, debilities, and care of aged persons.	noun	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
germ	a microorganism, especially when disease-producing; microbe.	noun	9	8-All English speakers likely know this word
germane	closely or significantly related; relevant; pertinent	adjective	13	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
germinal	being in the earliest stage of development	adjective	15	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
germinate	to begin to grow or develop.	verb (used without object)	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
gerontocracy	government by a council of elders.	noun	23	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
gerontology	the branch of science that deals with aging and the problems of aged persons.	noun	19	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
gerrymander	U.S. Politics. the dividing of a state, county, etc., into election districts so as to give one political party a majority in many districts while concentrating the voting strength of the other party into as few districts as possible.	noun	20	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
gestate	to carry in the womb during the period from conception to delivery.	verb (used with object)	9	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
gesticulation	the act of 	noun	21	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
ghastly	shockingly frightful or dreadful; horrible	adjective	14	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
gibberish	meaningless or unintelligible talk or writing.	noun	19	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
gibe	to utter mocking or scoffing words; jeer.	verb (used without object)	9	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
giddy	affected with vertigo; dizzy.	adjective	11	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
gild	to coat with gold, gold leaf, or a gold-colored substance.	verb (used with object)	8	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
gingerly	with great care or caution; warily.	adverb	16	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
girth	the measure around anything; circumference.	noun	9	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
gist	the main or essential part of a matter	noun	6	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
glacial	of or relating to 	adjective	14	11-All English speakers likely know this word
glamor	the quality of fascinating, alluring, or attracting, especially by a combination of charm and good looks.	noun	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
glare	a very harsh, bright, dazzling light	noun	8	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
glaring	shining with or reflecting a harshly bright or brilliant light.	adjective	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
glaze	to furnish or fill with glass	verb (used with object)	17	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
gleam	a flash or beam of light	noun	11	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
glean	to gather slowly and laboriously, bit by bit.	verb (used with object)	9	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
glib	readily fluent, often thoughtlessly, superficially, or insincerely so	adjective	10	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
glimmer	a faint or unsteady light; gleam.	noun	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
glitter	to reflect light with a brilliant, sparkling luster; sparkle with reflected light.	verb (used without object)	10	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
gloat	to look at or think about with great or excessive, often smug or malicious, satisfaction	verb (used without object)	8	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
gloss	a superficial luster or shine; glaze	noun	8	10-All English speakers likely know this word
glossary	a list of terms in a special subject, field, or area of usage, with accompanying definitions.	noun	13	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
glossy	having a shiny or lustrous surface.	adjective	11	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
glow	a light emitted by or as if by a substance heated to luminosity; incandescence.	noun	10	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
glower	to look or stare with sullen dislike, discontent, or anger.	verb (used without object)	12	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
glut	to feed or fill to satiety; sate	verb (used with object)	8	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
glutinous	of the nature of glue; gluey; viscid; sticky.	adjective	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
glutton	a person who eats and drinks excessively or voraciously.	noun	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
gnarl	a knotty protuberance on a tree; knot.	noun	9	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
gnarled	(of trees) full of or covered with 	adjective	12	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
gnome	(in folklore) one of a species of diminutive beings, usually described as shriveled little old men, that inhabit the interior of the earth and act as guardians of its treasures; troll.	noun	11	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
goad	a stick with a pointed or electrically charged end, for driving cattle, oxen, etc.; prod.	noun	7	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
gobble	to swallow or eat hastily or hungrily in large pieces; gulp.	verb (used with object)	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
gorge	a narrow cleft with steep, rocky walls, especially one through which a stream runs.	noun	9	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
gorge	a narrow cleft with steep, rocky walls, especially one through which a stream runs.	noun	9	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
gory	covered or stained with 	adjective	8	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
gossamer	a fine, filmy cobweb seen on grass or bushes or floating in the air in calm weather, especially in autumn.	noun	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
gouge	a chisel having a partly cylindrical blade with the bevel on either the concave or the convex side.	noun	10	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
gouge	a chisel having a partly cylindrical blade with the bevel on either the concave or the convex side.	noun	10	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
gourmand	a person who is fond of good eating, often indiscriminatingly and to excess.	noun	16	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
gourmet	a connoisseur of fine food and drink; epicure.	noun	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
gracious	pleasantly kind, benevolent, and courteous.	adjective	14	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
gradation	any process or change taking place through a series of stages, by degrees, or in a gradual manner.	noun	13	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
graduate	a person who has received a degree or diploma on completing a course of study, as in a university, college, or school.	noun	12	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
graduated	characterized by or arranged in degrees, especially successively, as according to height, depth, or difficulty	adjective	14	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
granary	a storehouse or repository for grain, especially after it has been threshed or husked.	noun	12	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
grandeur	the quality or state of being impressive or awesome	noun	13	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
grandiloquent	speaking or expressed in a lofty style, often to the point of being pompous or bombastic.	adjective	29	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
grandiose	affectedly grand or important; pompous	adjective	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
granulate	to form into 	verb (used with object)	14	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
graphic	giving a clear and effective picture; vivid	adjective	17	11-All English speakers likely know this word
graphite	a very common mineral, soft native carbon, occurring in black to dark-gray foliated masses, with metallic luster and greasy feel	noun	15	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
grapple	to hold or make fast to something, as with a grapple.	verb (used without object)	16	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
grate	a frame of metal bars for holding fuel when burning, as in a fireplace, furnace, or stove.	noun	7	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
gratify	to give pleasure to (a person or persons) by satisfying desires or humoring inclinations or feelings	verb (used with object)	14	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
gratis	without charge or payment; free	adverb	8	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
gratuitous	given, done, bestowed, or obtained without charge or payment; free; voluntary.	adjective	14	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
gratuity	a gift of money, over and above payment due for service, as to a waiter or bellhop; tip.	noun	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
gravity	the force of attraction by which terrestrial bodies tend to fall toward the center of the earth.	noun	15	11-All English speakers likely know this word
graze	to feed on growing grass and pasturage, as do cattle, sheep, etc.	verb (used without object)	16	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
gregarious	fond of the company of others; sociable.	adjective	15	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
grievance	a wrong considered as grounds for complaint, or something believed to cause distress	noun	19	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
grill	a grated utensil for broiling meat, fish, vegetables, etc., over a fire; gridiron.	noun	9	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
grim	stern and admitting of no appeasement or compromise	adjective	9	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
grimace	a facial expression, often ugly or contorted, that indicates disapproval, pain, etc.	noun	15	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
grisly	causing a shudder or feeling of horror; horrible; gruesome	adjective	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
groom	a bridegroom.	noun	10	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
groove	a long, narrow cut or indentation in a surface, as the cut in a board to receive the tongue of another board (tongue-and-groove joint) a furrow, or a natural indentation on an organism.	noun	12	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
gross	without deductions; total, as the amount of sales, salary, profit, etc., before taking deductions for expenses, taxes, or the like (opposed to 	adjective	7	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
grotesque	odd or unnatural in shape, appearance, or character; fantastically ugly or absurd; bizarre.	adjective	21	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
grotto	a cave or cavern.	noun	8	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
grouch	to be sulky or morose; show discontent; complain, especially in an irritable way.	verb (used without object)	14	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
grouse	any of numerous gallinaceous birds of the subfamily Tetraoninae.  Compare  	noun	9	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
grovel	to humble oneself or act in an abject manner, as in great fear or utter servility.	verb (used without object)	13	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
growl	to utter a deep guttural sound of anger or hostility	verb (used without object)	11	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
grudge	a feeling of ill will or resentment	noun	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
grudging	displaying or reflecting reluctance or unwillingness	adjective	17	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
gruel	a light, usually thin, cooked cereal made by boiling meal, especially oatmeal, in water or milk.	noun	9	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
grueling	exhausting; very tiring; arduously severe	adjective	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
gruesome	causing great horror; horribly repugnant; grisly	adjective	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
gruff	low and harsh; hoarse	adjective	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
grumble	to murmur or mutter in discontent; complain sullenly.	verb (used without object)	17	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
grunt	to utter the deep, guttural sound characteristic of a hog.	verb (used without object)	9	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
guffaw	a loud, unrestrained burst of laughter.	noun	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
guile	insidious cunning in attaining a goal; crafty or artful deception; duplicity.	noun	9	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
guileless	free from 	adjective	14	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
guise	general external appearance; aspect; semblance	noun	8	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
gull	any of numerous long-winged, web-toed, aquatic birds of the family Laridae, having usually white plumage with a gray back and wings.	noun	9	7-All English speakers likely know this word
gullible	easily deceived or cheated.	adjective	17	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
gush	to flow out or issue suddenly, copiously, or forcibly, as a fluid from confinement	verb (used without object)	9	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
gust	a sudden, strong blast of wind.	noun	7	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
gustatory	of or relating to taste or tasting.	adjective	14	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
gusto	hearty or keen enjoyment, as in eating or drinking, or in action or speech in general	noun	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
gusty	blowing or coming in 	adjective	10	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
guy	Informal. a man or boy; fellow	noun	8	8-All English speakers likely know this word
gyroscope	an apparatus consisting of a rotating wheel so mounted that its axis can turn freely in certain or all directions, and capable of maintaining the same absolute direction in space in spite of movements of the mountings and surrounding parts	noun	19	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
habitat	the natural environment of an organism; place that is natural for the life and growth of an organism	noun	12	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
habituate	to accustom (a person, the mind, etc.), as to a particular situation	verb (used with object)	15	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
hackles	one of the long, slender feathers on the neck or saddle of certain birds, as the domestic rooster, much used in making artificial flies for anglers.	noun	17	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
hackneyed	made commonplace or trite; stale; banal	adjective	22	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
haggard	having a gaunt, wasted, or exhausted appearance, as from prolonged suffering, exertion, or anxiety; worn	adjective	14	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
haggle	to bargain in a petty, quibbling, and often contentious manner	verb (used without object)	13	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
hail	to cheer, salute, or greet; welcome.	verb (used with object)	7	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
halcyon	calm; peaceful; tranquil	adjective	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
hale	free from disease or infirmity; robust; vigorous	adjective	7	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
halfhearted	having or showing little enthusiasm	adjective	20	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
hallowed	regarded as holy; venerated; sacred	adjective	16	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
hallucination	a sensory experience of something that does not exist outside the mind, caused by various physical and mental disorders, or by reaction to certain toxic substances, and usually manifested as visual or auditory images.	noun	23	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
halting	faltering or hesitating, especially in speech.	adjective	13	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
hamper	to hold back; hinder; impede	verb (used with object)	14	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
handsome	having an attractive, well-proportioned, and imposing appearance suggestive of health and strength; good-looking	adjective	15	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
hap	one's luck or lot.	noun	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
haphazard	characterized by lack of order or planning, by irregularity, or by randomness; determined by or dependent on chance; aimless.	adjective	26	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
hapless	unlucky; luckless; unfortunate.	adjective	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
harangue	a scolding or a long or intense verbal attack; diatribe.	noun	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
harass	to disturb persistently; torment, as with troubles or cares; bother continually; pester; persecute.	verb (used with object)	8	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
harbinger	a person who goes ahead and makes known the approach of another; herald.	noun	17	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
harbor	a part of a body of water along the shore deep enough for anchoring a ship and so situated with respect to coastal features, whether natural or artificial, as to provide protection from winds, waves, and currents.	noun	11	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
hardy	capable of enduring fatigue, hardship, exposure, etc.; sturdy; strong	adjective	10	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
harping	any of several horizontal members at the ends of a vessel for holding cant frames in position until the shell planking or plating is attached.	noun	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
harrowing	extremely disturbing or distressing; grievous	adjective	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
harry	to harass, annoy, or prove a nuisance to by or as if by repeated attacks; worry	verb (used with object)	9	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
hatch	to bring forth (young) from the egg.	verb (used with object)	12	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
haughtiness	disdainfully proud; snobbish; scornfully arrogant; supercilious	adjective	19	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
haunt	to visit habitually or appear to frequently as a spirit or ghost	verb (used with object)	9	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
haven	a harbor or port.	noun	12	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
havoc	great destruction or devastation; ruinous damage.	noun	14	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
hazard	an unavoidable danger or risk, even though often foreseeable	noun	18	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
hazardous	full of risk; perilous; risky	adjective	22	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
hazy	characterized by the presence of 	adjective	17	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
headfirst	with the 	adverb	15	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
headlong	with the head foremost; headfirst	adverb	15	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
headstrong	determined to have one's own way; willful; stubborn; obstinate	adjective	16	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
healthful	conducive to 	adjective	19	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
healthy	possessing or enjoying good 	adjective	14	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
heckler	to harass (a public speaker, performer, etc.) with impertinent questions, gibes, or the like; badger.	verb (used with object)	17	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
hedonist	a person whose life is devoted to the pursuit of pleasure and self-gratification.	noun	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
heed	to give careful attention to	verb (used with object)	7	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
heedless	careless; thoughtless; unmindful	adjective	12	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
hegemony	leadership or predominant influence exercised by one nation over others, as in a confederation.	noun	18	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
heinous	hateful; odious; abominable; totally reprehensible	adjective	11	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
helm	Nautical.    a wheel or tiller by which a ship is steered.    the entire steering apparatus of a ship.    the angle with the fore-and-aft line made by a rudder when turned	noun	10	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
hem	to fold back and sew down the edge of (cloth, a garment, etc.); form an edge or border on or around.	verb (used with object)	8	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
herald	(formerly) a royal or official messenger, especially one representing a monarch in an ambassadorial capacity during wartime.	noun	10	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
herbivorous	feeding on plants.	adjective	21	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
hereafter	after this in time or order; at some future time; farther along.	adverb	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
heresy	opinion or doctrine at variance with the orthodox or accepted doctrine, especially of a church or religious system.	noun	10	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
hermetic	made airtight by fusion or sealing.	adjective	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
hermetic	made airtight by fusion or sealing.	adjective	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
hermitage	the habitation of a hermit.	noun	16	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
herpetologist	the branch of zoology dealing with reptiles and amphibians.	noun	21	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
heterodox	not in accordance with established or accepted doctrines or opinions, especially in theology; unorthodox.	adjective	19	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
heterogeneous	different in kind; unlike; incongruous.	adjective	19	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
hew	to strike forcibly with an ax, sword, or other cutting instrument; chop; hack.	verb (used with object)	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
heyday	the stage or period of greatest vigor, strength, success, etc.; prime	noun	13	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
hiatus	a break or interruption in the continuity of a work, series, action, etc.	noun	9	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
hibernal	of or relating to winter; wintry.	adjective	15	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
hibernate	Zoology. to spend the winter in close quarters in a dormant condition, as bears and certain other animals.  Compare  	verb (used without object)	15	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
hide	to conceal from sight; prevent from being seen or discovered	verb (used with object)	7	8-All English speakers likely know this word
hideous	horrible or frightful to the senses; repulsive; very ugly	adjective	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
hierarchy	any system of persons or things ranked one above another.	noun	18	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
hieroglyphic	Also, hieroglyphical. designating or pertaining to a pictographic script, particularly that of the ancient Egyptians, in which many of the symbols are conventionalized, recognizable pictures of the things represented.	adjective	27	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
high-flown	extravagant in aims, pretensions, etc.	adjective	10	78-Few English speakers likely know this word
hilarity	cheerfulness; merriment; mirthfulness.	noun	13	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
hindmost	furtherest behind or nearest the rear; last.	adjective	15	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
hindrance	an impeding, stopping, preventing, or the like.	noun	17	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
hindsight	recognition of the realities, possibilities, or requirements of a situation, event, decision etc., after its occurrence.	noun	17	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
hinterlands	Often, hinterlands. the remote or less developed parts of a country; back country	noun	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
hireling	a person who works only for pay, especially in a menial or boring job, with little or no concern for the value of the work.	noun	14	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
hirsute	hairy; shaggy.	adjective	10	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
historic	well-known or important in 	adjective	13	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
historical	of, pertaining to, treating, or characteristic of 	adjective	16	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
histrionic	of or relating to actors or acting.	adjective	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
hive	a shelter constructed for housing a colony of honeybees; 	noun	10	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
hoard	a supply or accumulation that is hidden or carefully guarded for preservation, future use, etc.	noun	8	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
hoary	gray or white with age	adjective	9	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
hoax	something intended to deceive or defraud	noun	13	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
holocaust	a great or complete devastation or destruction, especially by fire.	noun	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
holster	a sheathlike carrying case for a firearm, attached to a belt, shoulder sling, or saddle.	noun	10	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
homage	respect or reverence paid or rendered	noun	13	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
homely	lacking in physical attractiveness; not beautiful; unattractive	adjective	14	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
homeostasis	the tendency of a system, especially the physiological system of higher animals, to maintain internal stability, owing to the coordinated response of its parts to any situation or stimulus that would tend to disturb its normal condition or function.	noun	16	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
homespun		adjective	18	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
homily	a sermon, usually on a Biblical topic and usually of a nondoctrinal nature.	noun	14	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
homogeneous	composed of parts or elements that are all of the same kind; not heterogeneous	adjective	20	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
hone	a whetstone of fine, compact texture for sharpening razors and other cutting tools.	noun	7	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
hoodwink	to deceive or trick.	verb (used with object)	19	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
horde	a large group, multitude, number, etc.; a mass or crowd	noun	8	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
horoscope	a diagram of the heavens, showing the relative position of planets and the signs of the zodiac, for use in calculating births, foretelling events in a person's life, etc.	noun	17	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
hortatory	urging to some course of conduct or action; exhorting; encouraging	adjective	13	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
horticultural	the cultivation of a garden, orchard, or nursery; the cultivation of flowers, fruits, vegetables, or ornamental plants.	noun	22	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
hostage	a person given or held as security for the fulfillment of certain conditions or terms, promises, etc., by another.	noun	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
hostility	a hostile state, condition, or attitude; enmity; antagonism; unfriendliness.	noun	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
hothead	an impetuous or short-tempered person.	noun	12	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
hovel	a small, very humble dwelling house; a wretched hut.	noun	12	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
hover	to hang fluttering or suspended in the air	verb (used without object)	11	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
hubbub	a loud, confused noise, as of many voices	noun	19	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
hubris	excessive pride or self-confidence; arrogance.	noun	12	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
hue	a gradation or variety of a color; tint	noun	6	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
hull	the husk, shell, or outer covering of a seed or fruit.	noun	9	10-All English speakers likely know this word
humane	characterized by tenderness, compassion, and sympathy for people and animals, especially for the suffering or distressed	adjective	13	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
humanitarian	having concern for or helping to improve the welfare and happiness of people.	adjective	20	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
humble	not proud or arrogant; modest	adjective	16	10-All English speakers likely know this word
humdrum	lacking variety; boring; dull	adjective	18	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
humid	containing a high amount of water or water vapor; noticeably moist	adjective	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
humility	the quality or condition of being 	noun	17	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
hummock	Also, 	noun	23	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
humor	a comic, absurd, or incongruous quality causing amusement	noun	11	8-All English speakers likely know this word
humus	the dark organic material in soils, produced by the decomposition of vegetable or animal matter and essential to the fertility of the earth.	noun	12	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
hurl	to throw or fling with great force or vigor.	verb (used with object)	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
hurtle	to rush violently; move with great speed	verb (used without object)	10	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
husband	a married man, especially when considered in relation to his partner in marriage.	noun	15	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
husbandry	the cultivation and production of edible crops or of animals for food; agriculture; farming.	noun	19	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
hut	a small or humble dwelling of simple construction, especially one made of natural materials, as of logs or grass.	noun	6	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
hybrid	the offspring of two animals or plants of different breeds, varieties, species, or genera, especially as produced through human manipulation for specific genetic characteristics.	noun	14	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
hydrophobia		noun	24	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
hygiene	Also, 	noun	14	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
hyperbole	obvious and intentional exaggeration.	noun	20	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
hypercritical	excessively or meticulously 	adjective	27	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
hypnosis	an artificially induced trance state resembling sleep, characterized by heightened susceptibility to suggestion.	noun	16	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
hypochondria	Also, hypochondriasis          	noun	26	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
hypocrisy	a pretense of having a virtuous character, moral or religious beliefs or principles, etc., that one does not really possess.	noun	21	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
hypothetical	assumed by hypothesis; supposed	adjective	25	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
hysteria	an uncontrollable outburst of emotion or fear, often characterized by irrationality, laughter, weeping, etc.	noun	12	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
ichthyology	the branch of zoology dealing with fishes.	noun	25	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
icon	a picture, image, or other representation.	noun	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
iconoclast	a person who attacks cherished beliefs, traditional institutions, etc., as being based on error or superstition.	noun	18	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
ideology	the body of doctrine, myth, belief, etc., that guides an individual, social movement, institution, class, or large group.	noun	14	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
idiom	an expression whose meaning is not predictable from the usual meanings of its constituent elements, as kick the bucket or hang one's head, or from the general grammatical rules of a language, as the table round for the round table, and that is not a constituent of a larger expression of like characteristics.	noun	9	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
idiosyncrasy	a characteristic, habit, mannerism, or the like, that is peculiar to an individual.	noun	21	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
idle	not working or active; unemployed; doing nothing	adjective	6	11-All English speakers likely know this word
idolatry	the religious worship of 	noun	12	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
idyllic	suitable for or suggestive of an 	adjective	15	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
idyll	a poem or prose composition, usually describing pastoral scenes or events or any charmingly simple episode, appealing incident, or the like.	noun	10	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
igneous	Geology. produced under conditions involving intense heat, as rocks of volcanic origin or rocks crystallized from molten magma.	adjective	11	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
ignite	to set on fire; kindle.	verb (used with object)	9	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
ignoble	of low character, aims, etc.; mean; base	adjective	14	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
ignominy	disgrace; dishonor; public contempt.	noun	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
illicit	not legally permitted or authorized; unlicensed; unlawful.	adjective	12	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
illimitable	not limitable; limitless; boundless.	adjective	20	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
illuminate	to supply or brighten with light; light up.	verb (used with object)	17	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
illusion	something that deceives by producing a false or misleading impression of reality.	noun	12	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
illusive		adjective	15	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
illusory	causing 	adjective	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
imbalance	the state or condition of lacking 	noun	20	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
imbecility	an instance or point of weakness; feebleness; incapability.	noun	22	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
imbibe	to consume (liquids) by drinking; drink	verb (used with object)	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
imbroglio	a misunderstanding, disagreement, etc., of a complicated or bitter nature, as between persons or nations.	noun	18	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
imbue	to impregnate or inspire, as with feelings, opinions, etc.	verb (used with object)	12	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
immaculate	free from spot or stain; spotlessly clean	adjective	21	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
imminent	likely to occur at any moment; impending	adjective	16	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
immobility	the quality or condition of being 	noun	22	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
immolate	to sacrifice.	verb (used with object)	15	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
immune	protected from a disease or the like, as by inoculation.	adjective	14	11-All English speakers likely know this word
immure	to enclose within walls.	verb (used with object)	13	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
immutable	not mutable; unchangeable; changeless.	adjective	20	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
impair	to make or cause to become worse; diminish in ability, value, excellence, etc.; weaken or damage	verb (used with object)	12	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
impale	to fasten, stick, or fix upon a sharpened stake or the like.	verb (used with object)	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
impalpable	not 	adjective	24	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
impart	to make known; tell; relate; disclose	verb (used with object)	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
impartial	not 	adjective	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
impassable	not 	adjective	20	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
impasse	a position or situation from which there is no escape; deadlock.	noun	13	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
impassioned	filled with intense feeling or passion; passionate; ardent.	adjective	19	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
impassive	without emotion; apathetic; unmoved.	adjective	19	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
impeach	to accuse (a public official) before an appropriate tribunal of misconduct in office.	verb (used with object)	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
impeccable	faultless; flawless; irreproachable	adjective	26	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
impecunious	having little or no money; penniless; poor.	adjective	23	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
impede	to retard in movement or progress by means of obstacles or hindrances; obstruct; hinder.	verb (used with object)	13	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
impediment	obstruction; hindrance; obstacle.	noun	21	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
impel	to drive or urge forward; press on; incite or constrain to action.	verb (used with object)	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
impending	about to happen; imminent	adjective	20	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
impenetrable	not penetrable; that cannot be penetrated, pierced, entered, etc.	adjective	23	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
impenitent	not feeling regret about one's sin or sins; obdurate.	adjective	18	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
imperative	absolutely necessary or required; unavoidable	adjective	20	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
imperceptible	very slight, gradual, or subtle	adjective	29	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
imperial	of, like, or pertaining to an 	adjective	15	9-All English speakers likely know this word
imperil	to put in 	verb (used with object)	14	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
imperious	domineering in a haughty manner; dictatorial; overbearing	adjective	16	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
impermeable	not permeable; impassable.	adjective	24	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
impersonal	not personal; without reference or connection to a particular person	adjective	18	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
impertinent	intrusive or presumptuous, as persons or their actions; insolently rude; uncivil	adjective	19	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
imperturbable	incapable of being upset or agitated; not easily excited; calm	adjective	27	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
impervious	not permitting penetration or passage; impenetrable	adjective	21	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
impetuous	of, relating to, or characterized by sudden or rash action, emotion, etc.; impulsive	adjective	17	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
impetus	a moving force; impulse; stimulus	noun	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
impiety	lack of piety; lack of reverence for God or sacred things; irreverence.	noun	15	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
impinge	to make an impression; have an effect or impact (usually followed by on or upon)	verb (used without object)	16	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
impious	not pious or religious; lacking reverence for God, religious practices, etc.; irreligious; ungodly.	adjective	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
implacable	not to be appeased, mollified, or pacified; inexorable	adjective	24	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
implausible	not 	adjective	23	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
implement	any article used in some activity, especially an instrument, tool, or utensil	noun	20	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
implicate	to show to be also involved, usually in an incriminating manner	verb (used with object)	19	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
implication	something 	noun	22	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
implicit	implied, rather than expressly stated	adjective	18	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
implode	to burst inward (opposed to 	verb (used without object)	15	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
implore	to beg urgently or piteously, as for aid or mercy; beseech; entreat	verb (used with object)	14	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
imply	to indicate or suggest without being explicitly stated	verb (used with object)	14	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
impolitic	not 	adjective	19	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
imponderable	not ponderable; that cannot be precisely determined, measured, or evaluated.	adjective	24	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
import	to bring in (merchandise, commodities, workers, etc.) from a foreign country for use, sale, processing, reexport, or services.	verb (used with object)	12	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
importunate	urgent or persistent in solicitation, sometimes annoyingly so.	adjective	19	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
importune	to press or beset with solicitations; demand with urgency or persistence.	verb (used with object)	17	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
imposture	the action or practice of imposing fraudulently upon others.	noun	16	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
impotent	not potent; lacking power or ability.	adjective	15	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
impoverish	to reduce to poverty	verb (used with object)	22	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
imprecation	the act of 	noun	21	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
impregnable	strong enough to resist or withstand attack; not to be taken by force, unconquerable	adjective	24	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
impregnate	to make pregnant; get with child or young.	verb (used with object)	19	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
impromptu	made or done without previous preparation	adjective	22	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
impropriety	the quality or condition of being improper; incorrectness.	noun	22	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
improvident	not 	adjective	23	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
improvise	to compose and perform or deliver without previous preparation; extemporize	verb (used with object)	19	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
imprudent	not prudent; lacking discretion; incautious; rash.	adjective	18	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
impudence	the quality or state of being 	noun	21	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
impugn	to challenge as false (another's statements, motives, etc.); cast doubt upon.	verb (used with object)	16	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
impuissance	lacking strength; feeble; weak.	adjective	18	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
impunity	exemption from punishment.	noun	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
impute	to attribute or ascribe	verb (used with object)	13	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
inadvertently	unintentional	adjective	23	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
inalienable	not 	adjective	18	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
inamorata	a woman who loves or is loved; female sweetheart or lover.	noun	13	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
inane	lacking sense, significance, or ideas; silly	adjective	7	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
inanimate	not animate; lifeless.	adjective	14	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
inarticulate	lacking the ability to express oneself, especially in clear and effective speech	adjective	18	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
inaugurate	to make a formal beginning of; initiate; commence; begin	verb (used with object)	15	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
incandescent	(of light) produced by 	adjective	22	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
incantation	the chanting or uttering of words purporting to have magical power.	noun	17	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
incapacitate	to deprive of ability, qualification, or strength; make incapable or unfit; disable.	verb (used with object)	22	68-Few English speakers likely know this word
incarcerate	to imprison; confine.	verb (used with object)	18	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
incarnate	embodied in flesh; given a bodily, especially a human, form	adjective	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
incarnation	an 	noun	17	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
incendiary	used or adapted for setting property on fire	adjective	18	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
incense	an aromatic gum or other substance producing a sweet odor when burned, used in religious ceremonies, to enhance a mood, etc.	noun	12	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
incentive	something that incites or tends to incite to action or greater effort, as a reward offered for increased productivity.	noun	18	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
inception	beginning; start; commencement.	noun	17	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
incessant	continuing without interruption; ceaseless; unending	adjective	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
inchoate	not yet completed or fully developed; rudimentary.	adjective	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
incidence	the rate or range of occurrence or influence of something, especially of something unwanted	noun	18	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
incident	an individual occurrence or event.	noun	14	11-All English speakers likely know this word
incidental	happening or likely to happen in an unplanned or subordinate conjunction with something else.	adjective	17	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
incinerate	to burn or reduce to ashes; cremate.	verb (used with object)	15	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
incipient	beginning to exist or appear; in an initial stage	adjective	17	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
incisive	penetrating; cutting; biting; trenchant	adjective	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
incite	to stir, encourage, or urge on; stimulate or prompt to action	verb (used with object)	10	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
inclement	(of the weather, the elements, etc.) severe, rough, or harsh; stormy.	adjective	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
incline	to deviate from the vertical or horizontal; slant.	verb (used with object)	13	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
inclined	deviating in direction from the horizontal or vertical; sloping.	adjective	15	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
inclusive		adjective	19	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
incognito	having one's identity concealed, as under an assumed name, especially to avoid notice or formal attentions.	adjective	16	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
incoherent	without logical or meaningful connection; disjointed; rambling	adjective	17	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
incommodious	inconvenient, as not affording sufficient space or room; uncomfortable	adjective	24	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
incompatible	not compatible; unable to exist together in harmony	adjective	26	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
incongruity	the quality or condition of being 	noun	21	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
inconsequential	of little or no importance; insignificant; trivial.	adjective	32	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
inconsistency	the quality or condition of being 	noun	24	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
incontinent	unable to restrain natural discharges or evacuations of urine or feces.	adjective	18	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
incontrovertible	not controvertible; not open to question or dispute; indisputable	adjective	29	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
incorporate	to form into a legal corporation.	verb (used with object)	18	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
incorporeal	not corporeal or material; insubstantial.	adjective	19	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
incorrigible	not corrigible; bad beyond correction or reform	adjective	22	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
incredulity	the quality or state of being 	noun	20	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
incredulous	not credulous; disinclined or indisposed to believe; skeptical.	adjective	19	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
increment	something added or gained; addition; increase.	noun	17	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
incriminate	to accuse of or present proof of a 	verb (used with object)	19	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
incrustation	an 	noun	18	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
incubate	to sit upon (eggs) for the purpose of hatching.	verb (used with object)	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
incubus	an imaginary demon or evil spirit supposed to descend upon sleeping persons, especially one fabled to have sexual intercourse with women during their sleep.  Compare  	noun	16	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
inculcate	to implant by repeated statement or admonition; teach persistently and earnestly (usually followed by upon or in)	verb (used with object)	18	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
incumbent	holding an indicated position, role, office, etc., currently	adjective	21	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
incur	to come into or acquire (some consequence, usually undesirable or injurious)	verb (used with object)	10	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
incursion	a hostile entrance into or invasion of a place or territory, especially a sudden one; raid	noun	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
indecision	inability to decide.	noun	16	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
indecisive	characterized by 	adjective	19	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
indefatigable	incapable of being tired out; not yielding to fatigue; untiring.	adjective	24	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
indelible	making marks that cannot be erased, removed, or the like	adjective	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
indemnify	to compensate for damage or loss sustained, expense incurred, etc.	verb (used with object)	20	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
indentation	a cut, notch, or deep recess	noun	15	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
indenture	a deed or agreement executed in two or more copies with edges correspondingly 	noun	13	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
indeterminate	not determinate; not precisely fixed in extent; indefinite; uncertain.	adjective	19	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
indicative	showing, signifying, or pointing out; expressive or suggestive (usually followed by of)	adjective	19	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
indices	a plural of 	noun	12	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
indict	(of a grand jury) to bring a formal accusation against, as a means of bringing to trial	verb (used with object)	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
indifferent	without interest or concern; not caring; apathetic	adjective	20	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
indigence	seriously impoverished condition; poverty.	noun	17	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
indigenous	originating in and characteristic of a particular region or country; native (often followed by to)	adjective	16	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
indigent	lacking food, clothing, and other necessities of life because of poverty; needy; poor; impoverished.	adjective	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
indignation	strong displeasure at something considered unjust, offensive, insulting, or base; righteous anger.	noun	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
indignity	an injury to a person's dignity; slighting or contemptuous treatment; humiliating affront, insult, or injury.	noun	16	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
indiscriminate	not discriminating; lacking in care, judgment, selectivity, etc.	adjective	23	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
indisputable	not disputable or deniable; uncontestable. indisputable evidence.	adjective	22	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
indissoluble	not dissoluble; incapable of being dissolved, decomposed, undone, or destroyed.	adjective	20	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
indite	to compose or write, as a poem.	verb (used with object)	8	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
indoctrinate	to instruct in a 	verb (used with object)	18	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
indolent	having or showing a disposition to avoid exertion; slothful	adjective	12	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
indomitable	that cannot be subdued or overcome, as persons, will, or courage; unconquerable	adjective	20	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
indubitable	that cannot be doubted; patently evident or certain; unquestionable.	adjective	21	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
induce	to lead or move by persuasion or influence, as to some action or state of mind	verb (used with object)	12	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
induct	to install in an office, benefice, position, etc., especially with formal ceremonies	verb (used with object)	12	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
inductive	of, relating to, or involving electrical induction or 	adjective	19	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
indulge	to yield to an inclination or desire; allow oneself to follow one's will (often followed by in)	verb (used without object)	13	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
indulgent	characterized by or showing 	adjective	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
industrious	working energetically and devotedly; hard-working; diligent	adjective	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
inebriate	to make drunk; intoxicate.	verb (used with object)	13	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
inebriated	to make drunk; intoxicate.	verb (used with object)	15	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
ineffable	incapable of being expressed or described in words; inexpressible	adjective	20	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
ineffectual	not 	adjective	23	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
ineluctable	incapable of being evaded; inescapable	adjective	21	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
inept	without skill or aptitude for a particular task or assignment; maladroit	adjective	9	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
inequity	lack of 	noun	21	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
inerrancy	lack of error; infallibility.	noun	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
inert	having no inherent power of action, motion, or resistance (opposed to 	adjective	6	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
inevitable	unable to be avoided, evaded, or escaped; certain; necessary	adjective	19	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
inexorable	unyielding; unalterable	adjective	22	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
infallible	absolutely trustworthy or sure	adjective	20	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
infamous	having an extremely bad reputation	adjective	16	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
infantile	characteristic of or befitting an 	adjective	15	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
infer	to derive by reasoning; conclude or judge from premises or evidence	verb (used with object)	9	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
infernal	hellish; fiendish; diabolical	adjective	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
infest	to live in or overrun to an unwanted degree or in a troublesome manner, especially as predatory animals or vermin do	verb (used with object)	10	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
infidel	Religion.    a person who does not accept a particular faith, especially Christianity.    (in Christian use) an unbeliever, especially a Muslim.    (in Muslim use) a person who does not accept the Islamic faith; kaffir.  	noun	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
infiltrate	to filter into or through; permeate.	verb (used with object)	15	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
infinitesimal	indefinitely or exceedingly small; minute	adjective	22	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
infirmity	a physical weakness or ailment	noun	18	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
inflated	distended with air or gas; swollen.	adjective	14	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
influx	act of flowing in.	noun	19	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
infraction	breach; violation; infringement	noun	18	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
infringe	to commit a breach or infraction of; violate or transgress	verb (used with object)	15	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
ingenious	characterized by cleverness or originality of invention or construction	adjective	14	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
ingenue	the part of an artless, innocent, unworldly girl or young woman, especially as represented on the stage.	noun	12	70-Few English speakers likely know this word
ingenuous	free from reserve, restraint, or dissimulation; candid; sincere.	adjective	15	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
ingrained	firmly fixed; deep-rooted; inveterate	adjective	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
ingrate	an 	noun	10	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
ingratiate	to establish (oneself or someone else) in the favor or good graces of someone, especially by deliberate effort (usually followed by with)	verb (used with object)	13	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
inherent	existing in someone or something as a permanent and inseparable element, quality, or attribute; 	adjective	12	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
inhibit	to restrain, hinder, arrest, or check (an action, impulse, etc.).	verb (used with object)	13	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
inhibited	overly restrained.	adjective	16	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
inimical	adverse in tendency or effect; unfavorable; harmful	adjective	16	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
inimitable	incapable of being imitated or copied; surpassing imitation; matchless.	adjective	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
iniquitous	characterized by injustice or wickedness; wicked; sinful.	adjective	22	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
initiate	to begin, set going, or originate	verb (used with object)	9	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
injurious	harmful, hurtful, or detrimental, as in effect	adjective	21	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
inkling	a slight suggestion or indication; hint; intimation	noun	16	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
innate	existing in one from birth; inborn; native	adjective	8	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
innocuous	not harmful or injurious; harmless	adjective	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
innovation	something new or different introduced	noun	17	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
innuendo	an indirect intimation about a person or thing, especially of a disparaging or a derogatory nature.	noun	13	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
inopportune	not opportune; inappropriate; inconvenient; untimely or unseasonable	adjective	20	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
inordinate	not within proper or reasonable limits; immoderate; excessive	adjective	13	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
inquisitive	given to 	adjective	26	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
inquisitor	a person who makes an inquisition.	noun	21	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
insalubrious	unfavorable to health; unwholesome.	adjective	19	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
insatiable	not satiable; incapable of being satisfied or appeased	adjective	15	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
inscrutable	incapable of being investigated, analyzed, or scrutinized; impenetrable.	adjective	20	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
insensate	not endowed with sensation; inanimate	adjective	11	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
insensible	incapable of feeling or perceiving; deprived of sensation; unconscious, as a person after a violent blow.	adjective	16	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
insidious	intended to entrap or beguile	adjective	12	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
insightful	characterized by or displaying 	adjective	20	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
insinuate	to suggest or hint slyly	verb (used with object)	12	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
insipid	without distinctive, interesting, or stimulating qualities; vapid	adjective	12	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
insolence	contemptuously rude or impertinent behavior or speech.	noun	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
insolvent	not 	adjective	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
insomnia	inability to obtain sufficient sleep, especially when chronic; difficulty in falling or staying asleep; sleeplessness.	noun	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
insouciant	free from concern, worry, or anxiety; carefree; nonchalant.	adjective	16	66-Few English speakers likely know this word
instigate	to cause by incitement; foment	verb (used with object)	12	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
institute	to set up; establish; organize	verb (used with object)	11	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
institution	an organization, establishment, foundation, society, or the like, devoted to the promotion of a particular cause or program, especially one of a public, educational, or charitable character	noun	14	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
institutionalize	to make 	verb (used with object)	29	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
insubordinate	not submitting to authority; disobedient	adjective	20	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
insubstantial	not substantial or real; lacking substance	adjective	20	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
insularity	of or relating to an island or islands	adjective	15	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
insuperable	incapable of being passed over, overcome, or surmounted	adjective	20	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
insurgent	a person who rises in forcible opposition to lawful authority, especially a person who engages in armed resistance to a government or to the execution of its laws; rebel.	noun	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
insurmountable	incapable of being surmounted, passed over, or overcome; insuperable	adjective	25	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
insurrection	an act or instance of rising in revolt, rebellion, or resistance against civil authority or an established government.	noun	18	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
intangible	not tangible; incapable of being perceived by the sense of touch, as incorporeal or immaterial things; impalpable.	adjective	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
integral	of, relating to, or belonging as a part of the whole; constituent or component	adjective	12	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
integrate	to bring together or incorporate (parts) into a whole.	verb (used with object)	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
integrity	adherence to moral and ethical principles; soundness of moral character; honesty.	noun	14	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
intellect	the power or faculty of the mind by which one knows or understands, as distinguished from that by which one feels and that by which one wills; the understanding; the faculty of thinking and acquiring knowledge.	noun	15	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
intelligentsia	intellectuals considered as a group or class, especially as a cultural, social, or political elite.	plural noun	20	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
inter	to place (a dead body) in a grave or tomb; bury.	verb (used with object)	6	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
interdict	Civil Law. any prohibitory act or decree of a court or an administrative officer.	noun	14	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
interim	an intervening time; interval; meantime	noun	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
interjection	the act of interjecting.	noun	26	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
interlope	to intrude into some region or field of trade without a proper license.	verb (used without object)	14	66-Few English speakers likely know this word
intermediary	an intermediate agent or agency; a go-between or mediator.	noun	19	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
interminable	incapable of being terminated; unending	adjective	21	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
intermittent	stopping or ceasing for a time; alternately ceasing and beginning again	adjective	17	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
internecine	of or relating to conflict or struggle within a group	adjective	17	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
interpolate	to introduce (something additional or extraneous) between other things or parts; interject; interpose; intercalate.	verb (used with object)	16	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
interregnum	an interval of time between the close of a sovereign's reign and the accession of his or her normal or legitimate successor.	noun	19	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
interrogate	to ask questions of (a person), sometimes to seek answers or information that the person questioned considers personal or secret.	verb (used with object)	14	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
interstice	an intervening space.	noun	14	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
intervene	to come between disputing people, groups, etc.; intercede; mediate.	verb (used without object)	15	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
intimate	associated in close personal relations	adjective	12	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
intimidate	to make timid; fill with fear.	verb (used with object)	15	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
intolerant	not tolerating or respecting beliefs, opinions, usages, manners, etc., different from one's own, as in political or religious matters; bigoted.	adjective	13	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
intoxicate	to affect temporarily with diminished physical and mental control by means of alcoholic liquor, a drug, or another substance, especially to excite or stupefy with liquor.	verb (used with object)	21	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
intractable	not easily controlled or directed; not docile or manageable; stubborn; obstinate	adjective	19	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
intransigent	refusing to agree or compromise; uncompromising; inflexible.	adjective	17	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
intrepid	resolutely fearless; dauntless	adjective	13	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
intrigue	to arouse the curiosity or interest of by unusual, new, or otherwise fascinating or compelling qualities; appeal strongly to; captivate	verb (used with object)	12	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
intrinsic	belonging to a thing by its very nature	adjective	14	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
introspect	to practice 	verb (used without object)	17	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
introvert	a shy person.	noun	14	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
intrude	to thrust or bring in without invitation, permission, or welcome.	verb (used with object)	10	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
intuition	direct perception of truth, fact, etc., independent of any reasoning process; immediate apprehension.	noun	12	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
inundate	to flood; cover or overspread with water; deluge.	verb (used with object)	12	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
inured	to accustom to hardship, difficulty, pain, etc.; toughen or harden; habituate (usually followed by to)	verb (used with object)	9	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
invalid	an infirm or sickly person.	noun	14	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
invalidate	to render 	verb (used with object)	17	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
invective	vehement or violent denunciation, censure, or reproach.	noun	21	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
inveigh	to protest strongly or attack vehemently with words; rail (usually followed by against)	verb (used without object)	16	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
inveigle	to entice, lure, or ensnare by flattery or artful talk or inducements (usually followed by into)	verb (used with object)	16	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
inverse	reversed in position, order, direction, or tendency.	adjective	12	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
invert	to turn upside down.	verb (used with object)	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
inveterate	settled or confirmed in a habit, practice, feeling, or the like	adjective	15	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
invidious	calculated to create ill will or resentment or give offense; hateful	adjective	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
invincible	incapable of being conquered, defeated, or subdued.	adjective	23	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
inviolable	prohibiting violation; secure from destruction, violence, infringement, or desecration	adjective	20	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
invocation	the act of 	noun	19	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
invoke	to call for with earnest desire; make supplication or pray for	verb (used with object)	15	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
invulnerable	incapable of being wounded, hurt, or damaged.	adjective	24	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
iota	a very small quantity; jot; whit.	noun	4	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
irascible	easily provoked to anger; very irritable	adjective	16	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
irate	angry; enraged	adjective	5	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
iridescent	displaying a play of lustrous colors like those of the rainbow.	adjective	15	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
irksome	annoying; irritating; exasperating; tiresome	adjective	14	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
ironic	using words to convey a meaning that is the opposite of its literal meaning; containing or exemplifying 	adjective	10	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
irony	the use of words to convey a meaning that is the opposite of its literal meaning	noun	8	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
irreconcilable	incapable of being brought into harmony or adjustment; incompatible	adjective	26	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
irrefutable	that cannot be refuted or disproved	adjective	19	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
irrelevant	not relevant; not applicable or pertinent	adjective	16	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
irremediable	not admitting of remedy, cure, or repair	adjective	20	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
irreparable	not reparable; incapable of being rectified, remedied, or made good	adjective	18	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
irrepressible	incapable of being repressed or restrained; uncontrollable	adjective	20	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
irreproachable	not reproachable; free from blame.	adjective	26	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
irresolute	not 	adjective	12	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
irretrievable	not retrievable; irrecoverable; irreparable.	adjective	21	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
irreverence	the quality of being 	noun	19	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
irrevocable	not to be revoked or recalled; unable to be repealed or annulled; unalterable	adjective	22	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
isotope	any of two or more forms of a chemical element, having the same number of protons in the nucleus, or the same atomic number, but having different numbers of neutrons in the nucleus, or different atomic weights. There are 275 isotopes of the 81 stable elements, in addition to over 800 radioactive isotopes, and every element has known isotopic forms. Isotopes of a single element possess almost identical properties.	noun	10	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
isthmus	a narrow strip of land, bordered on both sides by water, connecting two larger bodies of land.	noun	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
itinerant	traveling from place to place, especially on a circuit, as a minister, judge, or sales representative; 	adjective	11	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
itinerary	a detailed plan for a journey, especially a list of places to visit; plan of travel.	noun	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
jab	to poke, or thrust abruptly or sharply, as with the end or point of a stick.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	15	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
jabber	to talk or utter rapidly, indistinctly, incoherently, or nonsensically; chatter.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	21	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
jaded	dulled or satiated by overindulgence	adjective	16	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
jargon	the language, especially the vocabulary, peculiar to a particular trade, profession, or group	noun	18	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
jaundice	Also called 	noun	23	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
jaundiced	affected with or colored by or as if by 	adjective	25	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
jaunt	a short journey, especially one taken for pleasure.	noun	16	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
jaunty	easy and sprightly in manner or bearing	adjective	19	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
jeopardize	to put in 	verb (used with object)	32	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
jest	a joke or witty remark; witticism.	noun	13	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
jetsam	goods cast overboard deliberately, as to lighten a vessel or improve its stability in an emergency, which sink where jettisoned or are washed ashore.	noun	18	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
jettison	to cast (goods) overboard in order to lighten a vessel or aircraft or to improve its stability in an emergency.	verb (used with object)	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
jibe	to shift from one side to the other when running before the wind, as a fore-and-aft sail or its boom.	verb (used without object)	16	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
jingoist	the spirit, policy, or practice of 	noun	20	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
jocose	given to or characterized by joking; jesting; humorous; playful	adjective	18	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
jocular	given to, characterized by, intended for, or suited to 	adjective	21	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
jocund	cheerful; merry; gay; blithe; glad	adjective	21	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
jollity		noun	20	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
jostle	to bump, push, shove, brush against, or elbow roughly or rudely.	verb (used with object)	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
jovial	endowed with or characterized by a hearty, joyous humor or a spirit of good-fellowship	adjective	20	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
jubilation	a feeling of or the expression of joy or exultation	noun	25	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
judiciary	the judicial branch of government.	noun	25	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
judicious	using or showing judgment as to action or practical expediency; discreet, prudent, or politic	adjective	24	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
jug	a large container usually made of earthenware, metal, or glass, commonly having a handle, a narrow neck, and sometimes a cap or cork.	noun	15	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
juggernaut	(often lowercase) any large, overpowering, destructive force or object, as war, a giant battleship, or a powerful football team.	noun	26	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
jumble	to mix in a confused mass; put or throw together without order	verb (used with object)	23	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
juncture	a point of time, especially one made critical or important by a concurrence of circumstances	noun	23	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
junket	a sweet, custardlike food of flavored milk curdled with rennet.	noun	21	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
juridical	of or relating to the administration of justice.	adjective	24	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
jurisdiction	the right, power, or authority to administer justice by hearing and determining controversies.	noun	27	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
jurisprudence	the science or philosophy of law.	noun	32	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
juxtapose	to place close together or side by side, especially for comparison or contrast.	verb (used with object)	29	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
kaleidoscope	an optical instrument in which bits of glass, held loosely at the end of a rotating tube, are shown in continually changing symmetrical forms by reflection in two or more mirrors set at angles to each other.	noun	24	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
ken	knowledge, understanding, or cognizance; mental perception	noun	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
kernel	the softer, usually edible part contained in the shell of a nut or the stone of a fruit.	noun	12	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
killjoy	a person who spoils the joy or pleasure of others; spoilsport.	noun	24	68-Few English speakers likely know this word
kindle	to start (a fire); cause (a flame, blaze, etc.) to begin burning.	verb (used with object)	13	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
kindred	a person's relatives collectively; kinfolk; kin.	noun	14	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
kinetic	pertaining to motion.	adjective	15	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
kismet	fate; destiny.	noun	13	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
kleptomaniac	a person who has 	noun	27	69-Few English speakers likely know this word
knack	a special skill, talent, or aptitude	noun	17	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
knave	an unprincipled, untrustworthy, or dishonest person.	noun	14	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
knead	to work (dough, clay, etc.) into a uniform mixture by pressing, folding, and stretching.	verb (used with object)	11	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
kneel	to go down or rest on the knees or a knee.	verb (used without object)	11	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
knell	the sound made by a bell rung slowly, especially for a death or a funeral.	noun	12	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
knit	to make (a garment, fabric, etc.) by interlocking loops of one or more yarns either by hand with 	verb (used with object)	9	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
knoll	a small, rounded hill or eminence; hillock.	noun	12	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
knotty	having 	adjective	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
kudos	honor; glory; acclaim	noun	11	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
labile	apt or likely to change.	adjective	11	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
laborious	requiring much work, exertion, or perseverance	adjective	14	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
labyrinth	an intricate combination of paths or passages in which it is difficult to find one's way or to reach the exit.  Synonyms	noun	18	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
lace	a netlike ornamental fabric made of threads by hand or machine.	noun	8	8-All English speakers likely know this word
laceration	the result of 	noun	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
lachrymose	suggestive of or tending to cause tears; mournful.	adjective	21	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
lackadaisical	without interest, vigor, or determination; listless; lethargic	adjective	26	66-Few English speakers likely know this word
lackluster		adjective	20	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
laconic	using few words; expressing much in few words; concise	adjective	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
lag	to fail to maintain a desired pace or to keep up; fall or stay behind	verb (used without object)	6	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
laggard	a person or thing that 	noun	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
lagoon	an area of shallow water separated from the sea by low sandy dunes.  Compare  	noun	10	11-All English speakers likely know this word
laity	the body of religious worshipers, as distinguished from the clergy.	noun	8	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
lament	to feel or express sorrow or regret for	verb (used with object)	11	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
lampoon	a sharp, often virulent satire directed against an individual or institution; a work of literature, art, or the like, ridiculing severely the character or behavior of a person, society, etc.	noun	15	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
lance	a long wooden shaft with a pointed metal head, used as a weapon by knights and cavalry soldiers in charging.	noun	10	11-All English speakers likely know this word
lancet	a small surgical instrument, usually sharp-pointed and two-edged, for making small incisions, opening abscesses, etc.	noun	11	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
languid	lacking in vigor or vitality; slack or slow	adjective	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
languish	to be or become weak or feeble; droop; fade.	verb (used without object)	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
languor	lack of energy or vitality; sluggishness.	noun	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
lank	(of plants) unduly long and slender	adjective	10	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
lap	the front part of the human body from the waist to the knees when in a sitting position.	noun	7	8-All English speakers likely know this word
larceny	the wrongful taking and carrying away of the personal goods of another from his or her possession with intent to convert them to the taker's own use.	noun	14	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
larder	a room or place where food is kept; pantry.	noun	8	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
largess	generous bestowal of gifts.	noun	10	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
lascivious	inclined to lustfulness; wanton; lewd	adjective	19	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
lassitude	weariness of body or mind from strain, oppressive climate, etc.; lack of energy; listlessness; languor.	noun	12	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
latch	a device for holding a door, gate, or the like, closed, consisting basically of a bar falling or sliding into a catch, groove, hole, etc.	noun	11	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
latent	present but not visible, apparent, or actualized; existing as potential	adjective	8	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
lateral	of or relating to the side; situated at, proceeding from, or directed to a side	adjective	9	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
latitude	Geography.    the angular distance north or south from the equator of a point on the earth's surface, measured on the meridian of the point.    a place or region as marked by this distance.  	noun	11	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
laud	to praise; extol.	verb (used with object)	7	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
lavish	expended, bestowed, or occurring in profusion	adjective	13	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
lax	not strict or severe; careless or negligent	adjective	11	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
layman	a person who is not a member of the clergy; one of the laity.	noun	13	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
leash	a chain, strap, etc., for controlling or leading a dog or other animal; lead.	noun	8	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
leaven	a substance, as yeast or baking powder, that causes fermentation and expansion of dough or batter.	noun	12	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
leave-taking	a saying farewell; a parting or goodbye; departure	noun	10	74-Few English speakers likely know this word
lechery	unrestrained or excessive indulgence of sexual desire.	noun	15	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
lectern	a reading desk in a church on which the Bible rests and from which the lessons are read during the church service.	noun	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
leery	wary; suspicious (usually followed by of)	adjective	8	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
leeway	extra time, space, materials, or the like, within which to operate; margin	noun	12	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
legacy	Law. a gift of property, especially personal property, as money, by will; a bequest.	noun	14	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
legato	smooth and connected; without breaks between the successive tones.	adjective, adverb	9	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
legend	a nonhistorical or unverifiable story handed down by tradition from earlier times and popularly accepted as historical.	noun	11	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
legerdemain	sleight of hand.	noun	19	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
legislature	a deliberative body of persons, usually elective, who are empowered to make, change, or repeal the laws of a country or state; the branch of government having the power to make laws, as distinguished from the executive and judicial branches of government.	noun	16	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
leniency	the quality or state of being 	noun	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
leonine	of or relating to the 	adjective	10	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
lethal	of, relating to, or causing death; deadly; fatal	adjective	10	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
lethargic	of, relating to, or affected with 	adjective	17	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
levee	an embankment designed to prevent the flooding of a river.	noun	10	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
levitate	to rise or float in the air, especially as a result of a supernatural power that overcomes gravity.	verb (used without object)	13	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
levity	lightness of mind, character, or behavior; lack of appropriate seriousness or earnestness.	noun	13	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
levy	an imposing or collecting, as of a tax, by authority or force.	noun	11	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
lewd	inclined to, characterized by, or inciting to lust or lechery; lascivious.	adjective	9	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
lexicographer	a writer, editor, or compiler of a dictionary.	noun	31	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
lexicon	a wordbook or dictionary, especially of Greek, Latin, or Hebrew.	noun	19	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
liability	liabilities.    moneys owed; debts or pecuniary obligations (opposed to 	noun	16	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
liaison	the contact or connection maintained by communications between units of the armed forces or of any other organization in order to ensure concerted action, cooperation, etc.	noun	9	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
libel	Law.    defamation by written or printed words, pictures, or in any form other than by spoken words or gestures.    the act or crime of publishing it.    a formal written declaration or statement, as one containing the allegations of a plaintiff or the grounds of a charge.  	noun	10	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
libertine	a person who is morally or sexually unrestrained, especially a dissolute man; a profligate; rake.	noun	14	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
libidinous	full of sexual lust; lustful; lewd; lascivious.	adjective	17	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
libido	Psychoanalysis. all of the instinctual energies and desires that are derived from the id.	noun	11	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
libretto	the text or words of an opera or similar extended musical composition.	noun	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
license	formal permission from a governmental or other constituted authority to do something, as to carry on some business or profession.	noun	12	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
licentious	sexually unrestrained; lascivious; libertine; lewd.	adjective	16	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
lien	Law. the legal claim of one person upon the property of another person to secure the payment of a debt or the satisfaction of an obligation.	noun	6	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
ligneous	of the nature of or resembling wood; woody.	adjective	13	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
lilliputian	extremely small; tiny; diminutive.	adjective	19	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
limber	characterized by ease in bending the body; supple; lithe.	adjective	13	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
limbo	(often initial capital letter) Roman Catholic Theology. a region on the border of hell or heaven, serving as the abode after death of unbaptized infants (limbo of infants) and of the righteous who died before the coming of Christ (limbo of the fathers or limbo of the patriarchs)	noun	12	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
limn	to represent in drawing or painting.	verb (used with object)	9	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
limp	to walk with a labored, jerky movement, as when lame.	verb (used without object)	11	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
limpid	clear, transparent, or pellucid, as water, crystal, or air	adjective	14	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
lineage	lineal descent from an ancestor; ancestry or extraction	noun	11	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
lineaments	Often, lineaments. a feature or detail of a face, body, or figure, considered with respect to its outline or contour	noun	15	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
linger	to remain or stay on in a place longer than is usual or expected, as if from reluctance to leave	verb (used without object)	10	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
linguistic	of or belonging to language	adjective	18	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
lionize	to treat (a person) as a celebrity	verb (used with object)	18	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
liquidate	to settle or pay (a debt)	verb (used with object)	21	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
list	a series of names or other items written or printed together in a meaningful grouping or sequence so as to constitute a record	noun	5	2-All English speakers likely know this word
listless	having or showing little or no interest in anything; languid; spiritless; indifferent	adjective	10	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
litany	a ceremonial or liturgical form of prayer consisting of a series of invocations or supplications with responses that are the same for a number in succession.	noun	10	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
lithe	bending readily; pliant; limber; supple; flexible	adjective	8	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
litigation	the act or process of 	noun	14	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
litter	objects strewn or scattered about; scattered rubbish.	noun	7	9-All English speakers likely know this word
livid	having a discolored, bluish appearance caused by a bruise, congestion of blood vessels, strangulation, etc., as the face, flesh, hands, or nails.	adjective	11	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
loath	unwilling; reluctant; disinclined; averse	adjective	8	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
loathe	to feel disgust or intense aversion for; abhor	verb (used with object)	9	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
lode	a veinlike deposit, usually metalliferous.	noun	6	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
loft	a room, storage area, or the like within a sloping roof; attic; garret.	noun	8	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
lofty	extending high in the air; of imposing height; towering	adjective	11	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
log	a portion or length of the trunk or of a large limb of a felled tree.	noun	6	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
loiter	to linger aimlessly or as if aimless in or about a place	verb (used without object)	7	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
loll	to recline or lean in a relaxed, lazy, or indolent manner; lounge	verb (used without object)	7	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
longevity	a long individual life; great duration of individual life	noun	19	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
lookout	the act of looking out or keeping watch.	noun	13	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
loom	a hand-operated or power-driven apparatus for weaving fabrics, containing harnesses, lay, reed, shuttles, treadles, etc.	noun	8	4-All English speakers likely know this word
lope	to move or run with bounding steps, as a quadruped, or with a long, easy stride, as a person.	verb (used without object)	8	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
lopsided	heavier, larger, or more developed on one side than on the other; unevenly balanced; unsymmetrical.	adjective	14	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
loquacious	talking or tending to talk much or freely; talkative; chattering; babbling; garrulous	adjective	25	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
lot	one of a set of objects, as straws or pebbles, drawn or thrown from a container to decide a question or choice by chance.	noun	4	6-All English speakers likely know this word
lottery	a gambling game or method of raising money, as for some public charitable purpose, in which a large number of tickets are sold and a drawing is held for certain prizes.	noun	10	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
lounge	to pass time idly and indolently.	verb (used without object)	11	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
lout	an awkward, stupid person; clumsy, ill-mannered boor; oaf.	noun	6	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
low	situated, placed, or occurring not far above the ground, floor, or base	adjective	7	1-All English speakers likely know this word
lubricate	to apply some oily or greasy substance to (a machine, parts of a mechanism, etc.) in order to diminish friction; oil or grease (something).	verb (used with object)	17	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
lucid	easily understood; completely intelligible or comprehensible	adjective	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
lucrative	profitable; moneymaking; remunerative	adjective	18	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
lucre	monetary reward or gain; money.	noun	10	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
ludicrous	causing laughter because of absurdity; provoking or deserving derision; ridiculous; laughable	adjective	16	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
lugubrious	mournful, dismal, or gloomy, especially in an affected, exaggerated, or unrelieved manner	adjective	19	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
lull	to put to sleep or rest by soothing means	verb (used with object)	8	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
lumber	timber sawed or split into planks, boards, etc.	noun	14	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
lumen	Optics. the unit of luminous flux, equal to the luminous flux emitted in a unit solid angle by a point source of one candle intensity.  Abbreviation	noun	11	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
luminary	a celestial body, as the sun or moon.	noun	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
luminous	radiating or reflecting light; shining; bright.	adjective	15	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
lunar	of or relating to the moon	adjective	8	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
lunatic	(no longer in technical use; now considered offensive) an insane person.	noun	13	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
lurid	gruesome; horrible; revolting	adjective	8	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
lurk	to lie or wait in concealment, as a person in ambush; remain in or around a place secretly or furtively.	verb (used without object)	10	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
luscious	highly pleasing to the taste or smell	adjective	14	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
lush	(of vegetation, plants, grasses, etc.) luxuriant; succulent; tender and juicy.	adjective	8	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
lust	intense sexual desire or appetite.	noun	6	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
luster	the state or quality of shining by reflecting light; glitter, sparkle, sheen, or gloss	noun	8	10-All English speakers likely know this word
lustrous	having 	adjective	11	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
luxuriant	abundant or lush in growth, as vegetation.	adjective	20	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
luxuriate	to enjoy oneself without stint; revel	verb (used without object)	19	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
macabre	gruesome and horrifying; ghastly; horrible.	adjective	16	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
mace	a clublike armor-breaking weapon of war, often with a flanged or spiked metal head, used chiefly in the Middle Ages.	noun	10	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
macerate	to soften or separate into parts by steeping in a liquid.	verb (used with object)	14	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
Machiavellian	of, like, or befitting 	adjective	0	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
machinations	an act or instance of 	noun	22	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
maculated	spotted; stained.	adjective	16	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
madrigal	a secular part song without instrumental accompaniment, usually for four to six voices, making abundant use of contrapuntal imitation, popular especially in the 16th and 17th centuries.	noun	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
maelstrom	a large, powerful, or violent whirlpool.	noun	16	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
magisterial	of, relating to, or befitting a master; authoritative; weighty; of importance or consequence	adjective	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
magistrate	a civil officer charged with the administration of the law.	noun	15	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
magnanimity	the quality of being 	noun	23	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
magnate	a person of great influence, importance, or standing in a particular enterprise, field of business, etc.	noun	13	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
magniloquent	speaking or expressed in a lofty or grandiose style; pompous; bombastic; boastful.	adjective	30	66-Few English speakers likely know this word
magnitude	size; extent; dimensions	noun	17	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
maim	to deprive of the use of some part of the body by wounding or the like; cripple	verb (used with object)	10	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
makeshift	a temporary expedient or substitute	noun	21	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
maladroit	lacking in adroitness; unskillful; awkward; bungling; tactless	adjective	14	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
malady	any disorder or disease of the body, especially one that is chronic or deepseated.	noun	13	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
malaise	a condition of general bodily weakness or discomfort, often marking the onset of a disease.	noun	11	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
malapropism	an act or habit of misusing words ridiculously, especially by the confusion of words that are similar in sound.	noun	24	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
malapropos	inappropriate; out of place; inopportune; untimely	adjective	20	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
malcontent	not satisfied or 	adjective	19	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
malediction	a curse; imprecation.	noun	20	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
malefactor	a person who violates the law; criminal.	noun	20	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
maleficent	doing evil or harm; harmfully malicious	adjective	21	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
malevolent	wishing evil or harm to another or others; showing ill will; ill-disposed; malicious	adjective	20	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
malfeasance	the performance by a public official of an act that is legally unjustified, harmful, or contrary to law; wrongdoing (used especially of an act in violation of a public trust).  Compare  	noun	22	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
malicious	full of, characterized by, or showing 	adjective	17	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
malign	to speak harmful untruths about; speak evil of; slander; defame	verb (used with object)	13	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
malignant	disposed to cause harm, suffering, or distress deliberately; feeling or showing ill will or hatred.	adjective	17	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
malingerer	to pretend illness, especially in order to shirk one's duty, avoid work, etc.	verb (used without object)	17	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
malleable	capable of being extended or shaped by hammering or by pressure from rollers.	adjective	18	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
malodorous	having an unpleasant or offensive odor; smelling bad	adjective	16	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
mammal	any vertebrate of the class Mammalia, having the body more or less covered with hair, nourishing the young with milk from the mammary glands, and, with the exception of the egg-laying monotremes, giving birth to live young.	noun	16	9-All English speakers likely know this word
mammoth	any large, elephantlike mammal of the extinct genus Mammuthus, from the Pleistocene Epoch, having hairy skin and ridged molar teeth.	noun	18	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
manacle	a shackle for the hand; handcuff.	noun	15	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
mandate	a command or authorization to act in a particular way on a public issue given by the electorate to its representative	noun	12	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
mandatory	authoritatively ordered; obligatory; compulsory	adjective	16	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
maneuver	a planned and regulated movement or evolution of troops, warships, etc.	noun	17	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
mange	any of various skin diseases caused by parasitic mites, affecting animals and sometimes humans and characterized by loss of hair and scabby eruptions.	noun	11	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
mangle	to injure severely, disfigure, or mutilate by cutting, slashing, or crushing	verb (used with object)	13	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
mangy	having, caused by, or like the 	adjective	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
maniacal	of or relating to mania or a 	adjective	16	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
manifest	readily perceived by the eye or the understanding; evident; obvious; apparent; plain	adjective	15	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
manifestation	an act of 	noun	21	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
manifesto	a public declaration of intentions, opinions, objectives, or motives, as one issued by a government, sovereign, or organization.	noun	16	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
manifold	of many kinds; numerous and varied	adjective	17	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
manipulate	to manage or influence skillfully, especially in an unfair manner	verb (used with object)	19	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
mannered	having 	adjective	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
mannerism	a habitual or characteristic 	noun	17	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
mantle	a loose, sleeveless cloak or cape.	noun	11	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
manumit	to release from slavery or servitude.	verb (used with object)	15	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
mar	to damage or spoil to a certain extent; render less perfect, attractive, useful, etc.; impair or spoil	verb (used with object)	6	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
maraud	to roam or go around in quest of plunder; make a raid for booty	verb (used without object)	11	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
margin	the space around the printed or written matter on a page.	noun	12	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
marginal	pertaining to a margin.	adjective	15	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
marital	of or relating to 	adverb	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
maritime	connected with the sea in relation to navigation, shipping, etc.	adjective	14	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
marked	strikingly noticeable; conspicuous	adjective	14	9-All English speakers likely know this word
maroon	dark brownish-red.	adjective	10	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
marred	to damage or spoil to a certain extent; render less perfect, attractive, useful, etc.; impair or spoil	verb (used with object)	10	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
marrow	Anatomy. a soft, fatty, vascular tissue in the interior cavities of bones that is a major site of blood cell production.	noun	12	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
marshal	a military officer of the highest rank, as in the French and some other armies.  Compare  	noun	13	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
marsupial	any viviparous, nonplacental mammal of the order Marsupialia, comprising the opossums, kangaroos, wombats, and bandicoots, the females of most species having a marsupium containing the mammary glands and serving as a receptacle for the young.	noun	17	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
martial	inclined or disposed to war; warlike	adjective	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
martinet	a strict disciplinarian, especially a military one.	noun	12	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
martyr	a person who willingly suffers death rather than renounce his or her religion.	noun	11	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
mash	to crush	verb (used with object)	9	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
masochism	Psychiatry. the condition in which sexual gratification depends on suffering physical pain or humiliation.	noun	20	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
mason	a person whose trade is building with units of various natural or artificial mineral products, as stones, bricks, cinder blocks, or tiles, usually with the use of mortar or cement as a bonding agent.	noun	9	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
masquerade	a party, dance, or other festive gathering of persons wearing masks and other disguises, and often elegant, historical, or fantastic costumes.	noun	24	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
mass	a body of coherent matter, usually of indefinite shape and often of considerable size	noun	7	5-All English speakers likely know this word
masticate	to chew.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	15	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
mat	a piece of fabric made of plaited or woven rushes, straw, hemp, or similar fiber, or of some other pliant material, as rubber, used as a protective covering on a floor or other surface, to wipe the shoes on, etc.	noun	6	9-All English speakers likely know this word
materialism	preoccupation with or emphasis on 	noun	18	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
maternal	of, pertaining to, having the qualities of, or befitting a mother	adjective	13	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
matinee	an entertainment, especially a dramatic or musical performance, held in the daytime, usually in the afternoon.	noun	11	68-Few English speakers likely know this word
matriarch	the female head of a family or tribal line.	noun	17	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
matriculate	to enroll in a college or university as a candidate for a degree.	verb (used with object)	19	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
matrimony	the state of being married; marriage	noun	18	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
matrix	something that constitutes the place or point from which something else originates, takes form, or develops	noun	16	10-All English speakers likely know this word
maudlin	tearfully or weakly emotional; foolishly sentimental	adjective	14	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
maul	a heavy hammer, as for driving stakes or wedges.	noun	9	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
mausoleum	a stately and magnificent tomb.	noun	18	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
mauve	a pale bluish purple.	noun	13	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
maverick	Southwestern U.S. an unbranded calf, cow, or steer, especially an unbranded calf that is separated from its mother.	noun	22	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
mawkish	characterized by sickly sentimentality; weakly emotional; maudlin.	adjective	19	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
maxim	an expression of a general truth or principle, especially an aphoristic or sententious one	noun	18	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
mayhem	Law. the crime of willfully inflicting a bodily injury on another so as to make the victim less capable of self-defense or, under modern statutes, so as to cripple or mutilate the victim.	noun	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
meager	deficient in quantity or quality; lacking fullness or richness; scanty; inadequate	adjective	11	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
mealymouthed	avoiding the use of direct and plain language, as from timidity, excessive delicacy, or hypocrisy; inclined to mince words; insincere, devious, or compromising.	adjective	11	75-Few English speakers likely know this word
meander	to proceed by or take a winding or indirect course	verb (used without object)	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
meddlesome	given to 	adjective	19	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
mediate	to settle (disputes, strikes, etc.) as an intermediary between parties; reconcile.	verb (used with object)	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
mediocre	of only ordinary or moderate quality; neither good nor bad; barely adequate	adjective	15	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
meditation	the act of 	noun	15	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
medium	a middle state or condition; mean.	noun	14	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
medley	a mixture, especially of heterogeneous elements; hodgepodge; jumble.	noun	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
meek	humbly patient or docile, as under provocation from others.	adjective	11	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
megalomania	Psychiatry. a symptom of mental illness marked by delusions of greatness, wealth, etc.	noun	21	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
melancholy	a gloomy state of mind, especially when habitual or prolonged; depression.	noun	23	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
melee	a confused hand-to-hand fight or struggle among several people.	noun	9	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
mellifluous	sweetly or smoothly flowing; sweet-sounding	adjective	22	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
memento	an object or item that serves to remind one of a person, past event, etc.; keepsake; souvenir.	noun	14	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
memoir	a record of events written by a person having intimate knowledge of them and based on personal observation.	noun	12	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
memorial	something designed to preserve the 	noun	15	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
memorialize	to commemorate.	verb (used with object)	27	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
menace	something that threatens to cause evil, harm, injury, etc.; a threat	noun	13	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
menagerie	a collection of wild or unusual animals, especially for exhibition.	noun	15	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
mendacious	telling lies, especially habitually; dishonest; lying; untruthful	adjective	19	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
mendicant	begging; practicing begging; living on alms.	adjective	18	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
menial	lowly and sometimes degrading	adjective	11	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
mentor	a wise and trusted counselor or teacher.	noun	10	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
mercantile	of or relating to merchants or trade; commercial.	adjective	18	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
mercenary	working or acting merely for money or other reward; venal.	adjective	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
mercurial	changeable; volatile; fickle; flighty; erratic	adjective	17	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
meretricious	alluring by a show of flashy or vulgar attractions; tawdry.	adjective	19	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
merger	a statutory combination of two or more corporations by the transfer of the properties to one surviving corporation.	noun	11	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
merit	claim to respect and praise; excellence; worth.	noun	8	6-All English speakers likely know this word
mesmerize	to hypnotize.	verb (used with object)	24	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
metallurgical	the technique or science of working or heating metals so as to give them certain desired shapes or properties.	noun	25	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
metamorphosis	Biology. a profound change in form from one stage to the next in the life history of an organism, as from the caterpillar to the pupa and from the pupa to the adult butterfly.  Compare  	noun	24	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
metaphysical	pertaining to or of the nature of metaphysics.	adjective	26	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
mete	to distribute or apportion by measure; allot; dole (usually followed by out)	verb (used with object)	7	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
meteoric	of, relating to, or consisting of 	adjective	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
meter	the fundamental unit of length in the 	noun	8	8-All English speakers likely know this word
methodical	performed, disposed, or acting in a systematic way; systematic; orderly	adjective	20	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
meticulous	taking or showing extreme care about minute details; precise; thorough	adjective	19	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
metrical	pertaining to 	adjective	15	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
metropolis	any large, busy city.	noun	17	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
mettle	courage and fortitude	noun	10	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
miasma	noxious exhalations from putrescent organic matter; poisonous effluvia or germs polluting the atmosphere.	noun	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
microcosm	a little world; a world in miniature (opposed to 	noun	21	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
migrant		adjective	13	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
migratory		adjective	16	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
milieu	surroundings, especially of a social or cultural nature	noun	11	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
militant	vigorously active and aggressive, especially in support of a cause	adjective	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
militate	to have a substantial effect; weigh heavily	verb (used without object)	12	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
militia	a body of citizens enrolled for military service, and called out periodically for drill but serving full time only in emergencies.	noun	11	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
millennium	a period of 1000 years.	noun	21	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
mime	the art or technique of portraying a character, mood, idea, or narration by gestures and bodily movements; pantomime.	noun	10	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
mimicry	the act, practice, or art of 	noun	18	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
minatory	menacing; threatening.	adjective	14	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
mincing	(of the gait, speech, behavior, etc.) affectedly dainty, nice, or elegant.	adjective	17	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
mingle	to become mixed, blended, or united.	verb (used without object)	13	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
miniature	a representation or image of something on a small or reduced scale.	noun	14	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
minion	a servile follower or subordinate of a person in power.	noun	11	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
minuscule	very small.	adjective	19	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
minute	the sixtieth part (1/60) of an hour; sixty seconds.	noun	11	7-All English speakers likely know this word
minutiae	Usually, minutiae. precise details; small or trifling matters	noun	13	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
mirage	an optical phenomenon, especially in the desert or at sea, by which the image of some object appears displaced above, below, or to one side of its true position as a result of spatial variations of the index of refraction of air.	noun	11	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
mire	a tract or area of wet, swampy ground; bog; marsh.	noun	7	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
mirth	gaiety or jollity, especially when accompanied by laughter	noun	10	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
misadventure	an instance of bad fortune; mishap.	noun	22	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
misanthrope	a hater of humankind.	noun	20	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
misapprehension		noun	28	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
miscellaneous	consisting of members or elements of different kinds; of mixed character	adjective	23	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
miscellany	a 	noun	21	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
mischance	a mishap or misfortune.	noun	21	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
mischief	conduct or activity that playfully causes petty annoyance.	noun	19	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
misconduct	improper 	noun	22	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
misconstrue	to misunderstand the meaning of; take in a wrong sense; misinterpret.	verb (used with object)	19	68-Few English speakers likely know this word
miscreant	depraved, villainous, or base.	adjective	16	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
misdemeanor	Law. a criminal offense defined as less serious than a felony.	noun	19	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
miserly	of, like, or befitting a 	adjective	13	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
misgivings	Often, misgivings. a feeling of doubt, distrust, or apprehension.	noun	21	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
mishap	an unfortunate accident.	noun	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
misnomer	a misapplied or inappropriate name or designation.	noun	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
misogamy	hatred of marriage.	noun	18	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
misogyny	hatred, dislike, or mistrust of women, or prejudice against women.	noun	18	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
missile	an object or weapon for throwing, hurling, or shooting, as a stone, bullet, or arrow.	noun	11	9-All English speakers likely know this word
missive	a written message; letter.	noun	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
mite	any of numerous small to microscopic arachnids of the subclass Acari, including species that are parasitic on animals and plants or that feed on decaying matter and stored foods.	noun	7	7-All English speakers likely know this word
mitigate	to lessen in force or intensity, as wrath, grief, harshness, or pain; moderate.	verb (used with object)	13	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
mnemonic	assisting or intended to assist the memory.	adjective	19	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
mobile	capable of moving or being moved readily.	adjective	13	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
mock	to attack or treat with ridicule, contempt, or derision.	verb (used with object)	14	6-All English speakers likely know this word
mode	a manner of acting or doing; method; way	noun	8	5-All English speakers likely know this word
modicum	a moderate or small amount	noun	18	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
modish	in the current fashion; stylish.	adjective	12	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
modulate	to regulate by or adjust to a certain measure or proportion; soften; tone down.	verb (used with object)	14	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
mogul	a bump or mound of hard snow on a ski slope.	noun	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
molecule	Chemistry, Physics. the smallest physical unit of an element or compound, consisting of one or more like atoms in an element and two or more different atoms in a compound.	noun	17	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
mollify	to soften in feeling or temper, as a person; pacify; appease.	verb (used with object)	17	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
mollycoddle	a man or boy who is used to being 	noun	24	73-Few English speakers likely know this word
molten	a past participle of 	verb	11	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
molt	(of birds, insects, reptiles, etc.) to cast or shed the feathers, skin, or the like, that will be replaced by a new growth.	verb (used without object)	8	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
momentous	of great or far-reaching importance or consequence	adjective	17	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
momentum	force or speed of movement; impetus, as of a physical object or course of events	noun	19	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
monarchy	a state or nation in which the supreme power is actually or nominally lodged in a monarch.  Compare  	noun	19	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
monastic	of or relating to monasteries	adjective	15	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
monetary	of or relating to the coinage or currency of a country.	adjective	14	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
mongrel	a dog of mixed or indeterminate breed.	noun	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
monochromatic	of or having one color.	adjective	28	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
monochrome	a painting or drawing in different shades of a single color.	noun	22	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
monogram	a design consisting of two or more alphabetic letters combined or interlaced, commonly one's initials, often printed on stationery, embroidered on clothing, etc.	noun	17	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
monograph	a treatise on a particular subject, as a biographical study or study of the works of one artist.	noun	20	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
monolithic	of or relating to a 	adjective	20	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
monotheism	the doctrine or belief that there is only one God.	noun	19	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
monotony	wearisome uniformity or lack of variety, as in occupation or scenery.	noun	15	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
monumental	resembling a 	adjective	20	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
moodiness	given to gloomy, depressed, or sullen 	adjective	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
moratorium	a suspension of activity	noun	17	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
morbid	suggesting an unhealthy mental state or attitude; unwholesomely gloomy, sensitive, extreme, etc.	adjective	13	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
mordant	sharply caustic or sarcastic, as wit or a speaker; biting.	adjective	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
mores	folkways of central importance accepted without question and embodying the fundamental moral views of a group.	plural noun	8	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
morgue	a place in which bodies are kept, especially the bodies of victims of violence or accidents, pending identification or burial.	noun	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
moribund	in a dying state; near death.	adjective	17	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
morose	gloomily or sullenly ill-humored, as a person or mood.	adjective	9	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
mortar	a receptacle of hard material, having a bowl-shaped cavity in which substances are reduced to powder with a pestle.	noun	9	6-All English speakers likely know this word
mortician		noun	16	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
mortify	to humiliate or shame, as by injury to one's pride or self-respect.	verb (used with object)	15	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
mosaic	a picture or decoration made of small, usually colored pieces of inlaid stone, glass, etc.	noun	12	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
mote	a small particle or speck, especially of dust.	noun	7	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
motif	a recurring subject, theme, idea, etc., especially in a literary, artistic, or musical work.	noun	11	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
motility	Biology. moving or capable of moving spontaneously	adjective	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
motley	exhibiting great diversity of elements	adjective	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
mottled	spotted or blotched in coloring.	adjective	12	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
motto	a maxim adopted as an expression of the guiding principle of a person, organization, city, etc.	noun	8	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
mountebank	a person who sells quack medicines, as from a platform in public places, attracting and influencing an audience by tricks, storytelling, etc.	noun	23	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
muddle	to mix up in a confused or bungling manner; jumble.	verb (used with object)	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
muggy	(of the atmosphere, weather, etc.) oppressively humid; damp and close.	adjective	15	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
mulct	to deprive (someone) of something, as by fraud, extortion, etc.; swindle.	verb (used with object)	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
multifarious	having many different parts, elements, forms, etc.	adjective	21	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
multiform	having many different shapes, forms, or kinds.	adjective	20	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
multilingual	using or able to speak several or many languages with some facility.	adjective	23	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
multiplicity	a large number or variety	noun	26	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
mundane	common; ordinary; banal; unimaginative.	adjective	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
munificent	extremely liberal in giving; very generous.	adjective	22	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
mural	a large picture painted or affixed directly on a wall or ceiling.	noun	10	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
murky	dark, gloomy, and cheerless.	adjective	15	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
murmur	a low, continuous sound, as of a brook, the wind, or trees, or of low, indistinct voices.	noun	14	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
muse	to think or meditate in silence, as on some subject.	verb (used without object)	8	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
musky	of or like 	adjective	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
muster	to assemble (troops, a ship's crew, etc.), as for battle, display, inspection, orders, or discharge.	verb (used with object)	10	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
musty	having an odor or flavor suggestive of mold, as old buildings, long-closed rooms, or stale food.	adjective	11	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
mutable	liable or subject to change or alteration.	adjective	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
mute	silent; refraining from speech or utterance.	adjective	8	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
muted	of low intensity and reduced volume; softened	adjective	10	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
mutilate	to injure, disfigure, or make imperfect by removing or irreparably damaging parts	verb (used with object)	13	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
mutinous	disposed to, engaged in, or involving revolt against authority.	adjective	14	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
mutter	to utter words indistinctly or in a low tone, often as if talking to oneself; murmur.	verb (used without object)	10	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
myopic	Ophthalmology. pertaining to or having 	adjective	17	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
myriad	a very great or indefinitely great number of persons or things.	noun	12	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
mystic	involving or characterized by esoteric, otherworldly, or symbolic practices or content, as certain religious ceremonies and art; spiritually significant; ethereal.	adjective	14	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
nadir	Astronomy. the point on the celestial sphere directly beneath a given position or observer and diametrically opposite the zenith.	noun	7	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
naivete	the quality or state of being naive; natural or artless simplicity.	noun	12	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
narcissism	inordinate fascination with oneself; excessive self-love; vanity.  Synonyms	noun	17	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
narrative	a story or account of events, experiences, or the like, whether true or fictitious.	noun	14	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
nascent	beginning to exist or develop	adjective	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
natal	of or relating to a person's birth	adjective	7	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
natation	an act or the skill of swimming.	noun	10	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
natty	neatly or trimly smart in dress or appearance; spruce	adjective	8	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
nausea	sickness at the stomach, especially when accompanied by a loathing for food and an involuntary impulse to vomit.	noun	8	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
nauseate	to affect with 	verb (used with object)	10	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
nauseous	affected with 	adjective	11	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
nautical	of or relating to sailors, ships, or navigation	adjective	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
navigable	deep and wide enough to provide passage to ships	adjective	20	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
nebula	Astronomy.    Also called diffuse nebula. a cloud of interstellar gas and dust.      Compare    	noun	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
nebulous	hazy, vague, indistinct, or confused	adjective	15	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
necromancy	a method of divination through alleged communication with the dead; black art.	noun	23	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
nectar	the saccharine secretion of a plant, which attracts the insects or birds that pollinate the flower.	noun	10	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
nefarious	extremely wicked or villainous; iniquitous	adjective	14	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
negate	to deny the existence, evidence, or truth of	verb (used with object)	9	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
negligence	the quality, fact, or result of being 	noun	20	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
negligible	so small, trifling, or unimportant that it may safely be neglected or disregarded	adjective	20	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
nemesis	something that a person cannot conquer, achieve, etc.	noun	11	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
neologism	a new word, meaning, usage, or phrase.	noun	16	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
neophyte	a beginner or novice	noun	16	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
nepotism	patronage bestowed or favoritism shown on the basis of family relationship, as in business and politics	noun	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
nether	lying or believed to lie beneath the earth's surface; infernal	adjective	9	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
nettle	any plant of the genus Urtica, covered with stinging hairs.  Compare  	noun	8	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
nexus	a means of connection; tie; link.	noun	14	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
nib	the point of a pen, or either of its divisions.	noun	7	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
nicety	a delicate or fine point; punctilio	noun	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
niggardly	reluctant to give or spend; stingy; miserly.	adjective	18	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
niggle	to criticize, especially constantly or repeatedly, in a peevish or petty way; carp	verb (used without object)	12	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
nihilist	total rejection of established laws and institutions.	noun	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
nimble	quick and light in movement; moving with ease; agile; active; rapid	adjective	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
nip	to squeeze or compress tightly between two surfaces or points; pinch; bite.	verb (used with object)	7	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
nirvana	(often initial capital letter). Pali 	noun	13	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
nocturnal	of or relating to the night (opposed to 	adjective	16	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
noisome	offensive or disgusting, as an odor.	adjective	11	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
nomadic	of, relating to, or characteristic of nomads.	adjective	15	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
nomenclature	a set or system of names or terms, as those used in a particular science or art, by an individual or community, etc.	noun	22	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
nominal	being such in name only; so-called; putative	adjective	13	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
nonchalance	the state or quality of being 	noun	23	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
noncommittal	not committing oneself, or not involving 	adjective	24	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
nondescript	of no recognized, definite, or particular type or kind	adjective	20	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
nonentity	a person or thing of no importance.	noun	14	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
nonplus	to render utterly perplexed; puzzle completely.	verb (used with object)	14	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
nonsense	words or language having little or no 	noun	11	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
noose	a loop with a running knot, as in a snare, lasso, or hangman's halter, that tightens as the rope is pulled.	noun	6	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
nostalgia	a wistful desire to return in thought or in fact to a former time in one's life, to one's home or homeland, or to one's family and friends; a sentimental yearning for the happiness of a former place or time	noun	13	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
nostrum	a medicine sold with false or exaggerated claims and with no demonstrable value; quack medicine.	noun	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
notable	worthy of note or notice; noteworthy	adjective	12	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
notch	an angular or V -shaped cut, indentation, or slit in an object, surface, or edge.	noun	11	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
notoriety	the state, quality, or character of being notorious or widely known	noun	12	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
nourish	to sustain with food or nutriment; supply with what is necessary for life, health, and growth.	verb (used with object)	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
nourishment	something that 	noun	19	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
nova	a star that suddenly becomes thousands of times brighter and then gradually fades to its original intensity.	noun	9	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
novelty	state or quality of being 	noun	15	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
novice	a person who is new to the circumstances, work, etc., in which he or she is placed; beginner; tyro	noun	14	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
noxious	harmful or injurious to health or physical well-being	adjective	16	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
nuance	a subtle difference or distinction in expression, meaning, response, etc.	noun	12	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
nubile	(of a young woman) suitable for marriage, especially in regard to age or physical development; marriageable.	adjective	12	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
nugatory	of no real value; trifling; worthless.	adjective	14	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
nullify	to render or declare legally void or inoperative	verb (used with object)	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
numismatist	a specialist in 	noun	19	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
nuptial	of or relating to marriage or the marriage ceremony	adjective	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
nuptial	of or relating to marriage or the marriage ceremony	adjective	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
nurse	a person formally educated and trained in the care of the sick or infirm.  Compare  	noun	7	6-All English speakers likely know this word
nurture	to feed and protect	verb (used with object)	10	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
nutrient		adjective	11	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
nutrition	the act or process of nourishing or of being nourished.	noun	12	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
nutritious	providing nourishment, especially to a high degree; nourishing; healthful	adjective	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
oaf	a clumsy, stupid person; lout.	noun	6	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
oath	a solemn appeal to a deity, or to some revered person or thing, to witness one's determination to speak the truth, to keep a promise, etc.	noun	6	5-All English speakers likely know this word
oatmeal		noun	11	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
obdurate	unmoved by persuasion, pity, or tender feelings; stubborn; unyielding.	adjective	13	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
obeisance	a movement of the body expressing deep respect or deferential courtesy, as before a superior; a bow, curtsy, or other similar gesture.	noun	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
obelisk	a tapering, four-sided shaft of stone, usually monolithic and having a pyramidal apex.	noun	15	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
obese	very fat or overweight; corpulent.	adjective	8	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
obfuscate	to confuse, bewilder, or stupefy.	verb (used with object)	19	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
obituary	a notice of the death of a person, often with a biographical sketch, as in a newspaper.	noun	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
objective	something that one's efforts or actions are intended to attain or accomplish; purpose; goal; target	noun	28	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
obligatory	required as a matter of obligation; mandatory	adjective	18	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
oblique	neither perpendicular nor parallel to a given line or surface; slanting; sloping.	adjective	21	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
obliterate	to remove or destroy all traces of; do away with; destroy completely.	verb (used with object)	14	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
oblivion	the state of being completely forgotten or unknown	noun	17	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
oblivious	unmindful; unconscious; unaware (usually followed by of or to)	adjective	18	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
obloquy	censure, blame, or abusive language aimed at a person or thing, especially by numerous persons or by the general public.	noun	23	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
obnoxious	highly objectionable or offensive; odious	adjective	21	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
obscure	(of meaning) not clear or plain; ambiguous, vague, or uncertain	adjective	14	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
obsequious	characterized by or showing servile complaisance or deference; fawning	adjective	24	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
obsequy	a funeral rite or ceremony.	noun	22	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
obsessive	being, pertaining to, or resembling an 	adjective	16	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
obsidian	a volcanic glass similar in composition to granite, usually dark but transparent in thin pieces, and having a good conchoidal fracture.	noun	13	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
obsolete	no longer in general use; fallen into disuse	adjective	12	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
obstetrician	a physician who specializes in 	noun	19	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
obstinate	firmly or stubbornly adhering to one's purpose, opinion, etc.; not yielding to argument, persuasion, or entreaty.	adjective	13	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
obstreperous	resisting control or restraint in a difficult manner; unruly.	adjective	19	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
obtrude	to thrust (something) forward or upon a person, especially without warrant or invitation	verb (used with object)	12	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
obtuse	not quick or alert in perception, feeling, or intellect; not sensitive or observant; dull.	adjective	10	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
obviate	to anticipate and prevent or eliminate (difficulties, disadvantages, etc.) by effective measures; render unnecessary	verb (used with object)	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
Occident	the Occident.    the West; the countries of Europe and America.    	noun	16	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
occlude	to close, shut, or stop up (a passage, opening, etc.).	verb (used with object)	16	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
occult	of or relating to magic, astrology, or any system claiming use or knowledge of secret or supernatural powers or agencies.	adjective	14	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
oculist		noun	12	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
odds	the probability that something is so, will occur, or is more likely to occur than something else	noun	6	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
odious	deserving or causing hatred; hateful; detestable.	adjective	8	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
odium	intense hatred or dislike, especially toward a person or thing regarded as contemptible, despicable, or repugnant.	noun	10	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
odoriferous	yielding or diffusing an 	adjective	16	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
odorous		adjective	9	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
odyssey	(italics) an epic poem attributed to Homer, describing Odysseus's adventures in his ten-year attempt to return home to Ithaca after the Trojan War.	noun	12	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
offensive	causing resentful displeasure; highly irritating, angering, or annoying	adjective	20	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
offhand	cavalierly, curtly, or brusquely	adverb	17	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
officious	objectionably aggressive in offering one's unrequested and unwanted services, help, or advice; meddlesome	adjective	19	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
ogle	to look at amorously, flirtatiously, or impertinently.	verb (used with object)	7	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
olfactory	of or relating to the sense of smell	adjective	18	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
oligarchy	a form of government in which all power is vested in a few persons or in a dominant class or clique; government by the few.	noun	19	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
ominous	portending evil or harm; foreboding; threatening; inauspicious	adjective	12	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
omnipotent	almighty or infinite in power, as God.	adjective	18	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
omnipresent	present everywhere at the same time	adjective	19	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
omniscient	having complete or unlimited knowledge, awareness, or understanding; perceiving all things.	adjective	18	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
omnivorous	eating both animal and plant foods.	adjective	19	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
onerous	burdensome, oppressive, or troublesome; causing hardship	adjective	9	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
onomatopoeia	the formation of a word, as cuckoo, meow, honk, or boom, by imitation of a sound made by or associated with its referent.	noun	19	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
onslaught	an onset, assault, or attack, especially a vigorous one.	noun	16	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
onus	a difficult or disagreeable obligation, task, burden, etc.	noun	6	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
ooze	(of moisture, liquid, etc.) to flow, percolate, or exude slowly, as through holes or small openings.	verb (used without object)	13	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
opalescent	exhibiting a play of colors like that of the 	adjective	18	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
opaque	not transparent or translucent; impenetrable to light; not allowing light to pass through.	adjective	19	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
opiate	a drug containing opium or its derivatives, used in medicine for inducing sleep and relieving pain.	noun	9	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
opportune	appropriate, favorable, or suitable	adjective	17	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
opportunism	the policy or practice, as in politics, business, or one's personal affairs, of adapting actions, decisions, etc., to expediency or effectiveness regardless of the sacrifice of ethical principles.	noun	22	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
opprobrium	the disgrace or the reproach incurred by conduct considered outrageously shameful; infamy.	noun	23	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
optician	a person who makes or sells eyeglasses and, usually, contact lenses, for remedying defects of vision in accordance with the prescriptions of ophthalmologists and optometrists.	noun	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
optimist	an 	noun	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
optimum	the best or most favorable point, degree, amount, etc., as of temperature, light, and moisture for the growth or reproduction of an organism.	noun	17	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
optional	left to one's choice; not required or mandatory	adjective	13	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
optometrist	a licensed professional who practices 	noun	17	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
opulence	wealth, riches, or affluence.	noun	17	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
opus	a musical composition.	noun	8	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
oracular	of the nature of, resembling, or suggesting an 	adjective	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
orator	a person who delivers an 	noun	6	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
oratorio	an extended musical composition with a text more or less dramatic in character and usually based upon a religious theme, for solo voices, chorus, and orchestra, and performed without action, costume, or scenery.	noun	8	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
ordain	to invest with ministerial or sacerdotal functions; confer holy orders upon.	verb (used with object)	8	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
ordeal	any extremely severe or trying test, experience, or trial.	noun	8	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
ordinance	an authoritative rule or law; a decree or command.	noun	15	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
ordination	Ecclesiastical. the act or ceremony of 	noun	13	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
orgy	wild or drunken festivity or revelry, especially involving sex with multiple participants.	noun	8	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
orient	the Orient,    the countries of Asia, especially East Asia.    (formerly) the countries to the E of the Mediterranean.  	noun	7	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
orientation	the act or process of orienting.	noun	13	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
orifice	an opening or aperture, as of a tube or pipe; a mouthlike opening or hole; mouth; vent.	noun	13	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
ornate	elaborately or sumptuously adorned, often excessively or showily so	adjective	7	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
ornithologist	the branch of zoology that deals with birds.	noun	19	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
orthodox	of, relating to, or conforming to the approved form of any doctrine, philosophy, ideology, etc.	adjective	18	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
orthography	the art of writing words with the proper letters, according to accepted usage; correct spelling.	noun	22	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
oscillate	to swing or move to and fro, as a pendulum does.	verb (used without object)	14	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
osseous	composed of, containing, or resembling bone; bony.	adjective	8	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
ossify	to convert into or cause to harden like bone.	verb (used with object)	11	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
ostensible	outwardly appearing as such; professed; pretended	adjective	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
ostentatious	characterized by or given to pretentious or conspicuous show in an attempt to impress others	adjective	14	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
ostracize	to exclude, by general consent, from society, friendship, conversation, privileges, etc.	verb (used with object)	21	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
oust	to expel or remove from a place or position occupied	verb (used with object)	5	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
outcast	a person who is rejected or 	noun	11	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
outfit	an assemblage of articles that equip a person for a particular task, role, trade, etc.	noun	10	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
outgoing		adjective	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
outlandish	freakishly or grotesquely strange or odd, as appearance, dress, objects, ideas, or practices; bizarre	adjective	16	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
outlaw	a lawless person or habitual criminal, especially one who is a fugitive from the law.	noun	11	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
outlook	the view or prospect from a particular place.	noun	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
outmoded	gone out of style; no longer fashionable	adjective	14	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
outrage	an act of wanton cruelty or violence; any gross violation of law or decency.	noun	10	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
outskirts	Often, outskirts. the outlying district or region, as of a city, metropolitan area, or the like	noun	14	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
outspoken	uttered or expressed with frankness or without reserve	adjective	18	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
outstrip	to outdo; surpass; excel.	verb (used with object)	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
outwit	to get the better of by superior ingenuity or cleverness; outsmart	verb (used with object)	10	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
ovation	an enthusiastic public reception of a person, marked especially by loud and prolonged applause.	noun	12	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
overbearing	domineering; dictatorial; haughtily or rudely arrogant.	adjective	21	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
overblown	overdone or excessive	adjective	21	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
oversee	to direct (work or workers); supervise; manage	verb (used with object)	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
overt	open to view or knowledge; not concealed or secret	adjective	9	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
overthrow	to depose, as from a position of power; overcome, defeat, or vanquish	verb (used with object)	18	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
overture	an opening or initiating move toward negotiations, a new relationship, an agreement, etc.; a formal or informal proposal or offer	noun	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
overturn	to destroy the power of; overthrow; defeat; vanquish.	verb (used with object)	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
overweening	presumptuously conceited, overconfident, or proud	adjective	22	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
overwhelm	to overcome completely in mind or feeling	verb (used with object)	22	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
overwrought	extremely or excessively excited or agitated	adjective	23	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
ovoid	egg-shaped; having the solid form of an egg.	adjective	10	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
pachyderm	any of the thick-skinned, nonruminant ungulates, as the elephant, hippopotamus, and rhinoceros.	noun	23	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
pacifist	a person who believes in 	noun	17	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
pacify	to bring or restore to a state of 	verb (used with object)	17	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
padre	father (used especially in addressing or referring to a priest or member of the clergy).	noun	9	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
paean	any song of praise, joy, or triumph.	noun	9	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
painstaking		adjective	22	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
palatable	acceptable or agreeable to the 	adjective	17	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
palate	Anatomy. the roof of the mouth, consisting of an anterior bony portion (hard palate) and a posterior muscular portion (soft palate) that separate the oral cavity from the nasal cavity.	noun	10	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
palatial	of, relating to, or resembling a 	adjective	13	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
paleontology	the science of the forms of life existing in former geologic periods, as represented by their fossils.	noun	22	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
palette	a thin and usually oval or oblong board or tablet with a thumb hole at one end, used by painters for holding and mixing colors.	noun	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
palimpsest	a parchment or the like from which writing has been partially or completely erased to make room for another text.	noun	20	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
pall	a cloth, often of velvet, for spreading over a coffin, bier, or tomb.	noun	9	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
pallet	a bed or mattress of straw.	noun	11	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
palliate	to relieve or lessen without curing; mitigate; alleviate.	verb (used with object)	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
pallid	pale; faint or deficient in color; wan	adjective	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
palm	the part of the inner surface of the hand that extends from the wrist to the bases of the fingers.	noun	11	3-All English speakers likely know this word
palpable	readily or plainly seen, heard, perceived, etc.; obvious; evident	adjective	19	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
palpitate	to pulsate with unusual rapidity from exertion, emotion, disease, etc.; flutter	verb (used without object)	16	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
paltry	ridiculously or insultingly small	adjective	12	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
pan	a broad, shallow container of metal, usually having sides flaring outward toward the top, used in various forms for frying, baking, washing, etc.	noun	7	3-All English speakers likely know this word
panacea	a remedy for all disease or ills; cure-all.	noun	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
panache	a grand or flamboyant manner; verve; style; flair	noun	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
pandemic	(of a disease) prevalent throughout an entire country, continent, or the whole world; epidemic over a large area.	adjective	19	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
pandemonium	wild uproar or unrestrained disorder; tumult or chaos.	noun	24	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
pander	a person who furnishes clients for a prostitute or supplies persons for illicit sexual intercourse; procurer; pimp.	noun	11	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
panegyric	a lofty oration or writing in praise of a person or thing; eulogy.	noun	20	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
pang	a sudden feeling of mental or emotional distress or longing	noun	10	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
panoramic	an unobstructed and wide view of an extensive area in all directions.	noun	19	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
pantomime	the art or technique of conveying emotions, actions, feelings, etc., by gestures without speech.	noun	19	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
papyrus	a tall, aquatic plant, Cyperus papyrus, of the sedge family, native to the Nile valley	noun	16	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
parable	a short allegorical story designed to illustrate or teach some truth, religious principle, or moral lesson.	noun	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
paradigm	Grammar.    a set of forms all of which contain a particular element, especially the set of all inflected forms based on a single stem or theme.    a display in fixed arrangement of such a set, as boy, boy's, boys, boys'.  	noun	17	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
paradox	a statement or proposition that seems self-contradictory or absurd but in reality expresses a possible truth.	noun	18	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
paragon	a model or pattern of excellence or of a particular excellence	noun	13	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
parallel	extending in the same direction, equidistant at all points, and never converging or diverging	adjective	14	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
parallelism	the position or relation of 	noun	20	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
parameter	Mathematics.    a constant or variable term in a function that determines the specific form of the function but not its general nature, as a in f (x) = ax, where a determines only the slope of the line described by f (x).    one of the independent variables in a set of parametric equations.  	noun	15	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
paramount	chief in importance or impact; supreme; preeminent	adjective	17	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
paramour	an illicit lover, especially of a married person.	noun	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
paranoia	Psychiatry. a mental disorder characterized by systematized delusions and the projection of personal conflicts, which are ascribed to the supposed hostility of others, sometimes progressing to disturbances of consciousness and aggressive acts believed to be performed in self-defense or as a mission.	noun	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
paraphernalia	(sometimes used with a singular verb) equipment, apparatus, or furnishing used in or necessary for a particular activity	noun	23	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
paraphrase	a restatement of a text or passage giving the meaning in another form, as for clearness; rewording.	noun	18	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
parasite	an organism that lives on or in an organism of another species, known as the host, from the body of which it obtains nutriment.	noun	11	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
parched	to make extremely, excessively, or completely dry, as heat, sun, and wind do.	verb (used with object)	16	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
parchment	the skin of sheep, goats, etc., prepared for use as a material on which to write.	noun	21	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
pariah	an outcast.	noun	11	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
parish	an ecclesiastical district having its own church and member of the clergy.	noun	11	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
parity	equality, as in amount, status, or character.	noun	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
parlance	a way or manner of speaking; vernacular; idiom	noun	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
parley	a discussion or conference.	noun	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
parochial	of, relating to, or financially supported by one or more church parishes	adjective	18	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
parody	a humorous or satirical imitation of a serious piece of literature or writing	noun	12	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
paroxysm	any sudden, violent outburst; a fit of violent action or emotion	noun	23	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
parquet	a floor composed of short strips or blocks of wood forming a pattern, sometimes with inlays of other woods or other materials.	noun	20	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
parry	to ward off (a thrust, stroke, weapon, etc.), as in fencing; avert.	verb (used with object)	10	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
parsimony	extreme or excessive economy or frugality; stinginess; niggardliness.	noun	18	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
partial	being such in 	adjective	11	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
partiality	the state or character of being 	noun	16	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
partisan	an adherent or supporter of a person, group, party, or cause, especially a person who shows a biased, emotional allegiance.	noun	12	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
partition	a division into or distribution in portions or shares.	noun	13	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
parvenu	a person who has recently or suddenly acquired wealth, importance, position, or the like, but has not yet developed the conventionally appropriate manners, dress, surroundings, etc.	noun	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
passe	the numbers 19 through 36 in roulette.	noun	8	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
passive	not reacting visibly to something that might be expected to produce manifestations of an emotion or feeling.	adjective	14	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
paste	a mixture of flour and water, often with starch or the like, used for causing paper or other material to adhere to something.	noun	8	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
pastiche	a literary, musical, or artistic piece consisting wholly or chiefly of motifs or techniques borrowed from one or more sources.	noun	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
pastoral	having the simplicity, charm, serenity, or other characteristics generally attributed to rural areas	adjective	12	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
pastry	a sweet baked food made of dough, especially the shortened 	noun	11	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
patent	the exclusive right granted by a government to an inventor to manufacture, use, or sell an invention for a certain number of years.	noun	10	11-All English speakers likely know this word
pathetic	causing or evoking pity, sympathetic sadness, sorrow, etc.; pitiful; pitiable	adjective	16	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
pathological	of or relating to 	adjective	24	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
pathos	the quality or power in an actual life experience or in literature, music, speech, or other forms of expression, of evoking a feeling of pity, or of sympathetic and kindly sorrow or compassion.	noun	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
patina	a film or incrustation, usually green, produced by oxidation on the surface of old bronze and often esteemed as being of ornamental value.	noun	10	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
patois	a regional form of a language, especially of French, differing from the standard, literary form of the language.	noun	9	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
patriarch	the male head of a family or tribal line.	noun	17	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
patrician	a person of noble or high rank; aristocrat.	noun	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
patrimony	an estate inherited from one's father or ancestors.	noun	18	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
patronize	to give (a store, restaurant, hotel, etc.) one's regular 	verb (used with object)	22	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
paucity	smallness of quantity; scarcity; scantiness	noun	16	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
pauper	a person without any means of support, especially a destitute person who depends on aid from public welfare funds or charity.	noun	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
peccadillo	a very minor or slight sin or offense; a trifling fault.	noun	22	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
pecuniary	of or relating to money	adjective	19	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
pedagogue	a teacher; schoolteacher.	noun	18	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
pedagogy	the function or work of a teacher; teaching.	noun	18	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
pedant	a person who makes an excessive or inappropriate display of learning.	noun	11	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
pedantic	ostentatious in one's learning.	adjective	16	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
peddle	to carry (small articles, goods, wares, etc.) from place to place for sale at retail; hawk.	verb (used with object)	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
pedestal	an architectural support for a column, statue, vase, or the like.	noun	13	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
pedestrian	a person who goes or travels on foot; walker.	noun	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
pediatrician	a physician who specializes in 	noun	20	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
pedigree	an ancestral line; line of descent; lineage; ancestry.	noun	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
pedigree	an ancestral line; line of descent; lineage; ancestry.	noun	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
peer	a person of the same legal status	noun	7	8-All English speakers likely know this word
peerless	having no equal; matchless; unrivaled.	adjective	12	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
peevish	cross, querulous, or fretful, as from vexation or discontent	adjective	16	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
pejorative	having a disparaging, derogatory, or belittling effect or force	adjective	26	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
pell-mell	in disorderly, headlong haste; in a recklessly hurried manner.	adverb	0	67-Few English speakers likely know this word
pellucid	allowing the maximum passage of light, as glass; translucent.	adjective	18	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
pen	any of various instruments for writing or drawing with ink or a similar substance.	noun	7	3-All English speakers likely know this word
penance	a punishment undergone in token of penitence for sin.	noun	15	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
penchant	a strong inclination, taste, or liking for something	noun	18	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
pendant	a hanging ornament, as an earring or the main piece suspended from a necklace.	noun	13	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
pending	while awaiting; until	preposition	15	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
pendulous	hanging down loosely	adjective	17	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
penetrate	to pierce or pass into or through	verb (used with object)	13	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
penitent	feeling or expressing sorrow for sin or wrongdoing and disposed to atonement and amendment; repentant; contrite.	adjective	13	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
penology	the study of the punishment of crime, in both its deterrent and its reformatory aspects.	noun	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
pensive	dreamily or wistfully thoughtful	adjective	15	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
penumbra	Astronomy.    the partial or imperfect shadow outside the complete shadow of an opaque body, as a planet, where the light from the source of illumination is only partly cut off.      Compare    	noun	19	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
penury	extreme poverty; destitution.	noun	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
peon	(in Spanish America) a farm worker or unskilled laborer; day laborer.	noun	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
perceptive	having or showing keenness of insight, understanding, or intuition	adjective	23	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
percussion	the striking of one body against another with some sharpness; impact; blow.	noun	18	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
perdition	a state of final spiritual ruin; 	noun	14	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
peregrination	travel from one place to another, especially on foot.	noun	20	70-Few English speakers likely know this word
peremptory	leaving no opportunity for denial or refusal; imperative	adjective	21	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
perennial	lasting for an indefinitely long time; enduring	adjective	15	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
perfidious	deliberately faithless; treacherous; deceitful	adjective	18	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
perforate	to make a hole or holes through by boring, punching, piercing, or the like.	verb (used with object)	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
perfunctory	performed merely as a routine duty; hasty and superficial	adjective	24	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
perigee	the point in the orbit of a heavenly body, especially the moon, or of an artificial satellite at which it is nearest to the earth.	noun	12	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
perimeter	the border or outer boundary of a two-dimensional figure.	noun	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
peripatetic	walking or traveling about; itinerant.	adjective	20	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
peripheral	pertaining to, situated in, or constituting the 	adjective	19	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
periphery	the external boundary of any surface or area.	noun	19	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
perjury	the willful giving of false testimony under oath or affirmation, before a competent tribunal, upon a point material to a legal inquiry.	noun	22	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
permeable	capable of being 	adjective	19	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
permissive	habitually or characteristically accepting or tolerant of something, as social behavior or linguistic usage, that others might disapprove or forbid.	adjective	20	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
pernicious	causing insidious harm or ruin; ruinous; injurious; hurtful	adjective	18	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
peroration	a long speech characterized by lofty and often pompous language.	noun	14	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
perpetrate	to commit	verb (used with object)	16	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
perpetual	continuing or enduring forever; everlasting.	adjective	17	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
perpetuate	to make 	verb (used with object)	17	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
perquisite	an incidental payment, benefit, privilege, or advantage over and above regular income, salary, or wages	noun	23	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
persevere	to persist in anything undertaken; maintain a purpose in spite of difficulty, obstacles, or discouragement; continue steadfastly.	verb (used without object)	16	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
persist	to continue steadfastly or firmly in some state, purpose, course of action, or the like, especially in spite of opposition, remonstrance, etc.	verb (used without object)	10	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
personable	of pleasing 	adjective	18	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
personify	to attribute human nature or character to (an inanimate object or an abstraction), as in speech or writing.	verb (used with object)	18	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
perspicacious	having keen mental perception and understanding; discerning	adjective	26	71-Few English speakers likely know this word
perspicuity	clearness or lucidity, as of a statement.	noun	23	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
perspicuous	clearly expressed or presented; lucid.	adjective	22	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
pert	boldly forward in speech or behavior; impertinent; saucy.	adjective	7	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
pertinacious	holding tenaciously to a purpose, course of action, or opinion; resolute.	adjective	20	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
pertinent		adjective	14	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
perturb	to disturb or disquiet greatly in mind; agitate.	verb (used with object)	14	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
peruse	to read through with thoroughness or care	verb (used with object)	10	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
perverse	willfully determined or disposed to go counter to what is expected or desired; contrary.	adjective	15	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
perversion	the act of 	noun	18	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
pervert	to affect with 	verb (used with object)	14	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
pessimism	the tendency to see, anticipate, or emphasize only bad or undesirable outcomes, results, conditions, problems, etc.	noun	18	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
pestilential	producing or tending to produce 	adjective	18	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
pestle	a tool for pounding or grinding substances in a mortar.	noun	10	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
petrify	to convert into stone or a stony substance.	verb (used with object)	15	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
petty	of little or no importance or consequence	adjective	10	9-All English speakers likely know this word
petulant	moved to or showing sudden, impatient irritation, especially over some trifling annoyance	adjective	14	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
phalanx	(in ancient Greece) a group of heavily armed infantry formed in ranks and files close and deep, with shields joined and long spears overlapping.	noun	21	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
pharisaical	of or relating to the Pharisees.	adjective	20	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
pharisee	a member of a Jewish sect that flourished during the 1st century b.c. and 1st century a.d. and that differed from the Sadducees chiefly in its strict observance of religious ceremonies and practices, adherence to oral laws and traditions, and belief in an afterlife and the coming of a Messiah.	noun	13	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
phenomena	a plural of 	noun	19	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
philanderer	(of a man) to make love with a woman one cannot or will not marry; carry on flirtations.	verb (used without object)	19	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
philanthropist	a person who practices 	noun	26	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
philatelist	the collecting of stamps and other postal matter as a hobby or an investment.	noun	18	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
philistine	(sometimes initial capital letter) a person who is lacking in or hostile or smugly indifferent to cultural values, intellectual pursuits, aesthetic refinement, etc., or is contentedly commonplace in ideas and tastes.	noun	17	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
philology	the study of literary texts and of written records, the establishment of their authenticity and their original form, and the determination of their meaning.	noun	20	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
phlegmatic	not easily excited to action or display of emotion; apathetic; sluggish.	adjective	24	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
phobia	a persistent, irrational fear of a specific object, activity, or situation that leads to a compelling desire to avoid it.	noun	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
phoenix	(sometimes initial capital letter) a mythical bird of great beauty fabled to live 500 or 600 years in the Arabian wilderness, to burn itself on a funeral pyre, and to rise from its ashes in the freshness of youth and live through another cycle of years	noun	20	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
phylum	Biology. the primary subdivision of a taxonomic kingdom, grouping together all classes of organisms that have the same body plan.	noun	18	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
physiognomy	the face or countenance, especially when considered as an index to the character	noun	26	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
physiological	of or relating to 	adjective	27	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
piebald	having patches of black and white or of other colors; parti-colored.	adjective	15	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
piecemeal	piece by piece; one piece at a time; gradually	adverb	19	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
pied	having patches of two or more colors, as various birds and other animals	adjective	8	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
piety	reverence for God or devout fulfillment of religious obligations	noun	10	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
pigment	a dry insoluble substance, usually pulverized, which when suspended in a liquid vehicle becomes a paint, ink, etc.	noun	16	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
pilfer	to steal, especially in small quantities.	verb (used without object), verb (used with object)	13	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
pillage	to strip ruthlessly of money or goods by open violence, as in war; plunder	verb (used with object)	14	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
pillory	a wooden framework erected on a post, with holes for securing the head and hands, formerly used to expose an offender to public derision.	noun	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
pinch	to squeeze or compress between the finger and thumb, the teeth, the jaws of an instrument, or the like.	verb (used with object)	14	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
pine	any evergreen, coniferous tree of the genus Pinus, having long, needle-shaped leaves, certain species of which yield timber, turpentine, tar, pitch, etc.  Compare  	noun	8	11-All English speakers likely know this word
pinion	Machinery.    a gear with a small number of teeth, especially one engaging with a rack or larger gear.    a shaft or spindle cut with teeth engaging with a gear.  	noun	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
pinnace	a light sailing ship, especially one formerly used in attendance on a larger ship.	noun	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
pinnacle	a lofty peak.	noun	17	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
pious	having or showing a dutiful spirit of reverence for God or an earnest wish to fulfill religious obligations.	adjective	9	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
piquant	agreeably pungent or sharp in taste or flavor; pleasantly biting or tart	adjective	21	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
pique	to affect with sharp irritation and resentment, especially by some wound to pride	verb (used with object)	18	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
piscatorial	of or relating to fishermen or fishing	adjective	18	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
pitfall	a lightly covered and unnoticeable pit prepared as a trap for people or animals.	noun	15	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
pith	Botany. the soft, spongy central cylinder of parenchymatous tissue in the stems of dicotyledonous plants.	noun	9	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
pithy	brief, forceful, and meaningful in expression; full of vigor, substance, or meaning; terse; forcible	adjective	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
pittance	a small amount or share.	noun	15	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
pivotal	of, relating to, or serving as a 	adjective	15	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
placate	to appease or pacify, especially by concessions or conciliatory gestures	verb (used with object)	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
placebo	Medicine/Medical, Pharmacology.    a substance having no pharmacological effect but given merely to satisfy a patient who supposes it to be a medicine.    a substance having no pharmacological effect but administered as a control in testing experimentally or clinically the efficacy of a biologically active preparation.  	noun	17	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
placid	pleasantly calm or peaceful; unruffled; tranquil; serenely quiet or undisturbed	adjective	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
plagiarize	to take and use by 	verb (used with object)	25	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
plaintive	expressing sorrow or melancholy; mournful	adjective	18	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
plait	a braid, especially of hair or straw.	noun	9	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
plane	a flat or level surface.	noun	10	2-All English speakers likely know this word
plaster	a composition, as of lime or gypsum, sand, water, and sometimes hair or other fiber, applied in a pasty form to walls, ceilings, etc., and allowed to harden and dry.	noun	11	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
plasticity	the quality or state of being 	noun	19	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
platitude	a flat, dull, or trite remark, especially one uttered as if it were fresh or profound.	noun	15	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
platonic	of, relating to, or characteristic of 	adjective	16	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
plaudit	an enthusiastic expression of approval	noun	13	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
plausible	having an appearance of truth or reason; seemingly worthy of approval or acceptance; credible; believable	adjective	18	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
plebeian	belonging or pertaining to the common people.	adjective	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
plebiscite	a direct vote of the qualified voters of a state in regard to some important public question.	noun	20	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
plenary	full; complete; entire; absolute; unqualified	adjective	14	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
plenitude	fullness or adequacy in quantity, measure, or degree; abundance	noun	16	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
plethora	overabundance; excess	noun	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
pliable	easily bent; flexible; supple	adjective	15	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
pliant	bending readily; flexible; supple; adaptable	adjective	11	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
plight	a condition, state, or situation, especially an unfavorable or unfortunate one	noun	14	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
ploy	a maneuver or stratagem, as in conversation, to gain the advantage.	noun	10	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
pluck	to pull off or out from the place of growth, as fruit, flowers, feathers, etc.	verb (used with object)	17	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
plumage	the entire feathery covering of a bird.	noun	17	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
plumb	a small mass of lead or other heavy material, as that suspended by a line and used to measure the depth of water or to ascertain a vertical line.  Compare  	noun	16	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
plumber	a person who installs and repairs piping, fixtures, appliances, and appurtenances in connection with the water supply, drainage systems, etc., both in and out of buildings.	noun	18	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
plummet	Also called 	noun	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
plump	well filled out or rounded in form; somewhat fleshy or fat.	adjective	16	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
plutocracy	the rule or power of wealth or of the wealthy.	noun	23	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
podiatrist	a person qualified to diagnose and treat foot disorders.	noun	14	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
podium	a small platform for the conductor of an orchestra, for a public speaker, etc.	noun	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
poignancy	the state or condition of being 	noun	21	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
poise	a state of balance or equilibrium, as from equality or equal distribution of weight; 	noun	8	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
polar	of or relating to the North or South Pole.	adjective	9	4-All English speakers likely know this word
polarity	Physics.    the property or characteristic that produces unequal physical effects at different points in a body or system, as a magnet or storage battery.    the positive or negative state in which a body reacts to a magnetic, electric, or other field.  	noun	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
polarize	to cause 	verb (used with object)	21	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
polemic	a controversial argument, as one against some opinion, doctrine, etc.	noun	17	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
polemical	a controversial argument, as one against some opinion, doctrine, etc.	noun	20	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
politic	shrewd or prudent in practical matters; tactful; diplomatic.	adjective	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
polity	a particular form or system of government	noun	12	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
polygamist	a person who practices or favors 	noun	21	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
polyglot	able to speak or write several languages; multilingual.	adjective	17	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
pomposity	the quality of being 	noun	20	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
ponderous	of great weight; heavy; massive.	adjective	15	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
pontifical	of, relating to, or characteristic of a 	adjective	21	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
pore	to read or study with steady attention or application	verb (used without object)	7	9-All English speakers likely know this word
porous	full of 	adjective	10	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
porridge	a food made of oatmeal, or some other meal or cereal, boiled to a thick consistency in water or milk.	noun	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
portend	to indicate in advance; to foreshadow or presage, as an omen does	verb (used with object)	12	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
portly	rather heavy or fat; stout; corpulent.	adjective	12	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
pose	to assume a particular attitude or stance, especially with the hope of impressing others	verb (used without object)	7	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
poseur	a person who attempts to impress others by assuming or affecting a manner, degree of elegance, sentiment, etc., other than his or her true one.	noun	10	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
posterity	succeeding or future generations collectively	noun	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
posthumous	arising, occurring, or continuing after one's death	adjective	20	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
postmortem	of, relating to, or occurring in the time following death.	adjective	19	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
postulate	to ask, demand, or claim.	verb (used with object)	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
posture	the relative disposition of the parts of something.	noun	11	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
potable	fit or suitable for drinking	adjective	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
potent	powerful; mighty	adjective	10	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
potentate	a person who possesses great power, as a sovereign, monarch, or ruler.	noun	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
potential	possible, as opposed to actual	adjective	14	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
potion	a drink or draft, especially one having or reputed to have medicinal, poisonous, or magical powers	noun	10	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
potpourri	a mixture of dried petals of roses or other flowers with spices, kept in a jar for their fragrance.	noun	16	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
poultice	a soft, moist mass of cloth, bread, meal, herbs, etc., applied hot as a medicament to the body.	noun	16	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
practicable	capable of being done, effected, or put into 	adjective	24	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
practical	of or relating to 	adjective	19	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
pragmatic	of or relating to a practical point of view or practical considerations.	adjective	20	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
pragmatist	a person who is oriented toward the success or failure of a particular line of action, thought, etc.; a practical person.	noun	18	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
prance	to spring from the hind legs; to move by springing, as a horse.	verb (used without object)	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
prank	a trick of an amusing, playful, or sometimes malicious nature.	noun	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
prate	to talk excessively and pointlessly; babble	verb (used without object)	8	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
prattle	to talk in a foolish or simple-minded way; chatter; babble.	verb (used without object)	11	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
preamble	an introductory statement; preface; introduction.  Synonyms	noun	18	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
precarious	dependent on circumstances beyond one's control; uncertain; unstable; insecure	adjective	17	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
precedent	Law. a legal decision or form of proceeding serving as an authoritative rule or pattern in future similar or analogous cases.	noun	17	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
precedent	Law. a legal decision or form of proceeding serving as an authoritative rule or pattern in future similar or analogous cases.	noun	17	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
precept	a commandment or direction given as a rule of action or conduct.	noun	16	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
precinct	a district, as of a city, marked out for governmental or administrative purposes, or for police protection.	noun	18	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
precipice	a cliff with a vertical, nearly vertical, or overhanging face.	noun	21	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
precipitant	falling headlong.	adjective	21	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
precipitate	to hasten the occurrence of; bring about prematurely, hastily, or suddenly	verb (used with object)	20	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
precipitous	of the nature of or characterized by 	adjective	21	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
precis	a concise summary.	noun	12	69-Few English speakers likely know this word
precise	definitely or strictly stated, defined, or fixed	adjective	13	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
preclude	to prevent the presence, existence, or occurrence of; make impossible	verb (used with object)	17	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
precocious	unusually advanced or mature in development, especially mental development	adjective	20	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
precursor	a person or thing that precedes, as in a job, a method, etc.; predecessor.	noun	16	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
predator	Zoology. any organism that exists by 	noun	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
predecessor	a person who 	noun	18	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
predetermine	to settle or decide in advance	verb (used with object)	20	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
predicament	an unpleasantly difficult, perplexing, or dangerous situation.	noun	22	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
predilection	a tendency to think favorably of something in particular; partiality; preference	noun	21	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
predispose	to give an inclination or tendency to beforehand; make susceptible	verb (used with object)	17	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
preeminent	eminent above or before others; superior; surpassing	adjective	18	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
preempt	to occupy (land) in order to establish a prior right to buy.	verb (used with object)	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
preen	(of animals, especially birds) to trim or dress (feathers, fur, etc.) with the beak or tongue	verb (used with object)	9	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
prefatory	of, relating to, or of the nature of a 	adjective	17	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
prefigure	to show or represent beforehand by a figure or type; foreshadow.	verb (used with object)	18	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
prehensile	adapted for seizing, grasping, or taking hold of something	adjective	17	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
prelate	an ecclesiastic of a high order, as an archbishop, bishop, etc.; a church dignitary.	noun	11	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
prelude	a preliminary to an action, event, condition, or work of broader scope and higher importance.	noun	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
premeditate	to meditate, consider, or plan beforehand	verb (used with object)	18	69-Few English speakers likely know this word
premise	Also, premiss. Logic. a proposition supporting or helping to support a conclusion.	noun	13	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
premonition	a feeling of anticipation of or anxiety over a future event; presentiment	noun	19	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
premonitory	giving premonition; serving to warn beforehand.	adjective	20	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
preponderance	the fact or quality of being 	noun	25	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
prepossessing	that impresses favorably; engaging or attractive	adjective	22	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
preposterous	completely contrary to nature, reason, or common sense; absurd; senseless; utterly foolish	adjective	19	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
prerogative	an exclusive right, privilege, etc., exercised by virtue of rank, office, or the like	noun	20	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
presage	a presentiment or foreboding.	noun	12	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
prescience	knowledge of things before they exist or happen; foreknowledge; foresight.	noun	20	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
presentiment	a feeling or impression that something is about to happen, especially something evil; foreboding.	noun	20	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
prestige	reputation or influence arising from success, achievement, rank, or other favorable attributes.	noun	13	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
presume	to take for granted, assume, or suppose	verb (used with object)	14	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
presumptuous	full of, characterized by, or showing 	adjective	24	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
pretend	to cause or attempt to cause (what is not so) to seem so	verb (used with object)	12	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
pretension	the laying of a claim to something.	noun	15	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
pretentious	characterized by assumption of dignity or importance, especially when exaggerated or undeserved	adjective	16	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
preternatural	out of the ordinary course of nature; exceptional or abnormal	adjective	19	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
pretext	something that is put forward to conceal a true purpose or object; an ostensible reason; excuse	noun	17	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
prevail	to be widespread or current; exist everywhere or generally	verb (used without object)	15	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
prevalent	widespread; of wide extent or occurrence; in general use or acceptance.	adjective	18	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
prevaricate	to speak falsely or misleadingly; deliberately misstate or create an incorrect impression; lie.	verb (used without object)	21	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
prey	an animal hunted or seized for food, especially by a carnivorous animal.	noun	9	6-All English speakers likely know this word
prim	formally precise or proper, as persons or behavior; stiffly neat.	adjective	10	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
primal	first; original; primeval	adjective	13	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
primary	first or highest in rank or importance; chief; principal	adjective	15	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
primate	Ecclesiastical. an archbishop or bishop ranking first among the bishops of a province or country.	noun	13	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
prime	of the first importance; demanding the fullest consideration	adjective	11	4-All English speakers likely know this word
primogeniture	the state or fact of being the firstborn of children of the same parents.	noun	23	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
primordial	constituting a beginning; giving origin to something derived or developed; original; elementary	adjective	18	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
primp	to dress or adorn with care.	verb (used with object)	14	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
pristine	having its original purity; uncorrupted or unsullied.	adjective	12	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
privation	lack of the usual comforts or necessaries of life	noun	17	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
privy	participating in the knowledge of something private or secret (usually followed by to)	adjective	14	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
prize	a reward for victory or superiority, as in a contest or competition.	noun	17	6-All English speakers likely know this word
probe	to search into or examine thoroughly; question closely	verb (used with object)	11	11-All English speakers likely know this word
probity	integrity and uprightness; honesty.	noun	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
problematic	of the nature of a 	adjective	24	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
proclivity	natural or habitual inclination or tendency; propensity; predisposition	noun	23	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
procrastinate	to defer action; delay	verb (used without object)	20	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
procure	to obtain or get by care, effort, or the use of special means	verb (used with object)	14	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
prod	to poke or jab with or as if with something pointed	verb (used with object)	8	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
prodigal	wastefully or recklessly extravagant	adjective	15	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
prodigious	extraordinary in size, amount, extent, degree, force, etc.	adjective	17	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
prodigy	a person, especially a child or young person, having extraordinary talent or ability	noun	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
profane	characterized by irreverence or contempt for God or sacred principles or things; irreligious.	adjective	14	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
profligate	utterly and shamelessly immoral or dissipated; thoroughly dissolute.	adjective	19	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
profound	penetrating or entering deeply into subjects of thought or knowledge; having deep insight or understanding	adjective	17	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
profusion	abundance; abundant quantity.	noun	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
progenitor	a biologically related ancestor	noun	16	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
progeny	a descendant or offspring, as a child, plant, or animal.	noun	15	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
prognosis	Medicine/Medical. a forecasting of the probable course and outcome of a disease, especially of the chances of recovery.	noun	15	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
prognosticate	to forecast or predict (something future) from present indications or signs; prophesy.	verb (used with object)	22	67-Few English speakers likely know this word
prohibitive	serving or tending to 	adjective	23	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
projectile	an object fired from a gun with an explosive propelling charge, such as a bullet, shell, rocket, or grenade.	noun	26	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
proletarian	pertaining or belonging to the 	adjective	16	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
proliferate	to grow or produce by multiplication of parts, as in budding or cell division, or by procreation.	verb (used without object), verb (used with object)	18	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
prolific	producing offspring, young, fruit, etc., abundantly; highly fruitful	adjective	18	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
prolixity	extended to great, unnecessary, or tedious length; long and wordy.	adjective	22	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
prologue	a preliminary discourse; a preface or introductory part of a discourse, poem, or novel.	noun	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
prolong	to lengthen out in time; extend the duration of; cause to continue longer	verb (used with object)	14	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
prominent	standing out so as to be seen easily; conspicuous; particularly noticeable	adjective	17	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
promiscuous	characterized by or involving indiscriminate mingling or association, especially having sexual relations with a number of partners on a casual basis.	adjective	22	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
promontory	a high point of land or rock projecting into the sea or other water beyond the line of coast; a headland.	noun	19	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
promote	to help or encourage to exist or flourish; further	verb (used with object)	13	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
prompt	done, performed, delivered, etc., at once or without delay	adjective	15	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
promulgate	to make known by open declaration; publish; proclaim formally or put into operation (a law, decree of a court, etc.).	verb (used with object)	20	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
prone	having a natural inclination or tendency to something; disposed; liable	adjective	9	7-All English speakers likely know this word
prong	one of the pointed tines of a fork.	noun	11	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
pronounced	strongly marked	adjective	20	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
prop	to support, or prevent from falling, with or as if with a prop (often followed by up)	verb (used with object)	10	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
propagate	to cause (an organism) to multiply by any process of natural reproduction from the parent stock.	verb (used with object)	17	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
propellant	a 	noun	19	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
propensity	a natural inclination or tendency	noun	19	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
prophetic	of or relating to a 	adjective	20	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
prophylactic	defending or protecting from disease or infection, as a drug.	adjective	29	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
propinquity	nearness in place; proximity.	noun	30	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
propitiate	to make favorably inclined; appease; conciliate.	verb (used with object)	16	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
propitious	presenting favorable conditions; favorable	adjective	17	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
proponent	a person who puts forward a proposition or proposal.	noun	17	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
propound	to put forward or offer for consideration, acceptance, or adoption; set forth; propose	verb (used with object)	17	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
propriety	conformity to established standards of good or proper behavior or manners.	noun	17	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
propulsive	the act or process of 	noun	22	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
prosaic	commonplace or dull; matter-of-fact or unimaginative	adjective	13	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
proscenium	Also called proscenium arch. the arch that separates a stage from the auditorium.  Abbreviation	noun	21	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
proscribe	to denounce or condemn (a thing) as dangerous or harmful; prohibit.	verb (used with object)	18	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
proselytize	to convert or attempt to convert as a 	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	26	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
prosody	the science or study of poetic meters and versification.	noun	13	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
prosper	to be successful or fortunate, especially in financial respects; thrive; flourish.	verb (used without object)	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
prosperity	a successful, flourishing, or thriving condition, especially in financial respects; good fortune.	noun	18	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
prosperous	having or characterized by financial success or good fortune; flourishing; successful	adjective	17	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
prostrate	to cast (oneself) face down on the ground in humility, submission, or adoration.	verb (used with object)	12	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
protean	readily assuming different forms or characters; extremely variable.	adjective	11	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
protege	a person under the patronage, protection, or care of someone interested in his or her career or welfare.	noun	12	68-Few English speakers likely know this word
protocol	the customs and regulations dealing with diplomatic formality, precedence, and etiquette.	noun	15	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
prototype	the original or model on which something is based or formed.	noun	17	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
protract	to draw out or lengthen, especially in time; extend the duration of; prolong.	verb (used with object)	14	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
protrude	to project.	verb (used without object)	13	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
protuberance	the condition, state, or quality of being 	noun	23	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
provenance	place or source of origin	noun	22	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
provender	dry food, as hay or oats, for livestock or other domestic animals; fodder.	noun	18	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
proverb	a short popular saying, usually of unknown and ancient origin, that expresses effectively some commonplace truth or useful thought; adage; saw.	noun	17	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
providence	(often initial capital letter) the foreseeing care and guidance of God or nature over the creatures of the earth.	noun	22	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
provident	having or showing foresight; 	adjective	18	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
provincial	belonging or peculiar to some particular 	adjective	22	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
provision	a clause in a legal instrument, a law, etc., providing for a particular matter; stipulation; proviso.	noun	17	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
provisional		adjective	20	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
proviso	a clause in a statute, contract, or the like, by which a condition is introduced.	noun	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
provocative	tending or serving to 	adjective	25	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
prowess	exceptional valor, bravery, or ability, especially in combat or battle.	noun	13	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
proximity	nearness in place, time, order, occurrence, or relation.	noun	24	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
proxy	the agency, function, or power of a person authorized to act as the deputy or substitute for another.	noun	17	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
prude	a person who is excessively proper or modest in speech, conduct, dress, etc.	noun	10	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
prudent	wise or judicious in practical affairs; sagacious; discreet or circumspect; sober.	adjective	13	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
prune	a variety of plum that dries without spoiling.	noun	10	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
prurient	having, inclined to have, or characterized by lascivious or lustful thoughts, desires, etc.	adjective	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
pry	to inquire impertinently or unnecessarily into something	verb (used without object)	8	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
pseudonym	a fictitious name used by an author to conceal his or her identity; pen name.  Compare  	noun	20	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
psyche		verb (used with object)	16	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
psychiatrist	a physician who practices 	noun	22	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
psychic	of or relating to the human soul or mind; mental (opposed to 	adjective	20	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
psychopathic	of, relating to, or affected with 	adjective	30	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
psychosis	a mental disorder characterized by symptoms, such as delusions or hallucinations, that indicate impaired contact with reality.	noun	19	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
psychosomatic	of or relating to a physical disorder that is caused by or notably influenced by emotional factors.	adjective	29	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
pterodactyl	any of a number of genera of flying reptiles of the extinct order Pterosauria, from the Jurassic and Cretaceous periods, having a highly reduced tail and teeth and a birdlike beak.	noun	21	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
pucker	to draw or gather into wrinkles or irregular folds, as material or a part of the face; constrict	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	17	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
pudding	a thick, soft dessert, typically containing flour or some other thickener, milk, eggs, a flavoring, and sweetener	noun	16	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
puerile	of or relating to a child or to childhood.	adjective	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
pugilist	a person who fights with the fists; a boxer, usually a professional.	noun	15	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
pugnacity	inclined to quarrel or fight readily; quarrelsome; belligerent; combative.	adjective	21	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
puissant	powerful; mighty; potent.	adjective	13	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
pulchritude	physical beauty; comeliness.	noun	23	72-Few English speakers likely know this word
pulmonary	of or relating to the lungs.	adjective	20	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
pulpit	a platform or raised structure in a church, from which the sermon is delivered or the service is conducted.	noun	14	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
pulsate	to expand and contract rhythmically, as the heart; beat; throb.	verb (used without object)	12	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
pulse	the regular throbbing of the arteries, caused by the successive contractions of the heart, especially as may be felt at an artery, as at the wrist.	noun	10	4-All English speakers likely know this word
pulverize	to reduce to dust or powder, as by pounding or grinding.	verb (used with object)	27	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
pummel	to beat or thrash with or as if with the fists.	verb (used with object)	17	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
punctilious	extremely attentive to 	adjective	21	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
pundit	a learned person, expert, or authority.	noun	12	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
pungent	sharply affecting the organs of taste or smell, as if by a penetrating power; biting; acrid.	adjective	15	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
punitive	serving for, concerned with, or inflicting punishment	adjective	17	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
puny	of less than normal size and strength; weak.	adjective	11	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
purchase	to acquire by the payment of money or its equivalent; buy.	verb (used with object)	17	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
purgatory	(in the belief of Roman Catholics and others) a condition or place in which the souls of those dying penitent are purified from venial sins, or undergo the temporal punishment that, after the guilt of mortal sin has been remitted, still remains to be endured by the sinner.	noun	17	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
purge	to rid of whatever is impure or undesirable; cleanse; purify.	verb (used with object)	11	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
purport	to present, especially deliberately, the appearance of being; profess or claim, often falsely	verb (used with object)	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
purported	reputed or claimed; alleged	adjective	17	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
purse	a woman's handbag or pocketbook.	noun	9	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
purveyor	a person who 	noun	18	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
pushy	obnoxiously forward or self-assertive.	adjective	13	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
pusillanimous	lacking courage or resolution; cowardly; faint-hearted; timid.	adjective	24	67-Few English speakers likely know this word
putative	commonly regarded as such; reputed; supposed	adjective	16	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
putrefy	to render 	verb (used with object)	16	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
putrescent	becoming putrid; undergoing putrefaction.	adjective	18	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
putrid	in a state of foul decay or decomposition, as animal or vegetable matter; rotten.	adjective	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
puzzle	a toy, problem, or other contrivance designed to amuse by presenting difficulties to be solved by ingenuity or patient effort.	noun	29	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
pyromaniac	a compulsion to set things on fire.	noun	22	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
quack	the harsh, throaty cry of a duck or any similar sound.	noun	22	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
quadruped		adjective	25	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
quaff	to drink a beverage, especially an intoxicating one, copiously and with hearty enjoyment.	verb (used without object)	21	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
quagmire	an area of miry or boggy ground whose surface yields under the tread; a bog.	noun	23	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
quail	a small, migratory, gallinaceous game bird, Coturnix coturnix, of the Old World.	noun	16	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
quaint	having an old-fashioned attractiveness or charm; oddly picturesque	adjective	17	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
qualified	having the qualities, accomplishments, etc., that fit a person for some function, office, or the like.	adjective	24	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
qualify	to provide with proper or necessary skills, knowledge, credentials, etc.; make competent	verb (used with object)	23	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
qualms	an uneasy feeling or pang of conscience as to conduct; compunction	noun	20	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
quandary	a state of perplexity or uncertainty, especially as to what to do; dilemma.	noun	22	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
quarantine	a strict isolation imposed to prevent the spread of disease.	noun	22	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
quarry	an excavation or pit, usually open to the air, from which building stone, slate, or the like, is obtained by cutting, blasting, etc.	noun	18	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
quarry	an excavation or pit, usually open to the air, from which building stone, slate, or the like, is obtained by cutting, blasting, etc.	noun	18	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
quash	to put down or suppress completely; quell; subdue	verb (used with object)	17	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
quay	a landing place, especially one of solid masonry, constructed along the edge of a body of water; wharf.	noun	16	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
queasy	inclined to or feeling nausea, as the stomach, a person, etc.; nauseous; nauseated.	adjective	18	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
queer	strange or odd from a conventional viewpoint; unusually different; singular	adjective	15	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
quell	to suppress; put an end to; extinguish	verb (used with object)	17	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
quench	to slake, satisfy, or allay (thirst, desires, passion, etc.).	verb (used with object)	22	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
querulous	full of complaints; complaining.	adjective	22	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
query	a question; an inquiry.	noun	17	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
queue	a braid of hair worn hanging down behind.	noun	16	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
quibble	an instance of the use of ambiguous, prevaricating, or irrelevant language or arguments to evade a point at issue.	noun	24	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
quicksilver	the metallic element mercury.	noun	33	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
quiescent	being at rest; quiet; still; inactive or motionless	adjective	23	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
quietude	the state of being quiet; tranquillity; calmness; stillness; quiet.	noun	20	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
quintessence	the pure and concentrated essence of a substance.	noun	27	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
quip	a clever or witty remark or comment.	noun	17	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
quirk	a peculiarity of action, behavior, or personality; mannerism	noun	19	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
quisling	a person who betrays his or her own country by aiding an invading enemy, often serving later in a puppet government; fifth columnist.	noun	22	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
quiver	to shake with a slight but rapid motion; vibrate tremulously; tremble.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	20	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
quiver	to shake with a slight but rapid motion; vibrate tremulously; tremble.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	20	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
quixotic	(sometimes initial capital letter) resembling or befitting Don Quixote.	adjective	28	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
quizzical	odd, queer, or comical.	adjective	41	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
quorum	the number of members of a group or organization required to be present to transact business legally, usually a majority.	noun	20	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
quotidian	daily	adjective	21	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
rabble	a disorderly crowd; mob.	noun	13	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
rabid	irrationally extreme in opinion or practice	adjective	9	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
rabies	an infectious disease of dogs, cats, and other animals, transmitted to humans by the bite of an infected animal and usually fatal if prophylactic treatment is not administered	noun	9	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
raconteur	a person who is skilled in relating stories and anecdotes interestingly.	noun	14	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
raffle	a form of lottery in which a number of persons buy one or more chances to win a prize.	noun	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
rag	a worthless piece of cloth, especially one that is torn or worn.	noun	5	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
ragamuffin	a ragged, disreputable person; tatterdemalion.	noun	23	67-Few English speakers likely know this word
rail	a bar of wood or metal fixed horizontally for any of various purposes, as for a support, barrier, fence, or 	noun	5	3-All English speakers likely know this word
raiment	clothing; apparel; attire.	noun	11	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
rake	an agricultural implement with teeth or tines for gathering cut grass, hay, or the like or for smoothing the surface of the ground.	noun	8	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
rakish	like a 	adjective	12	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
rally	to bring into order again; gather and organize or inspire anew	verb (used with object)	9	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
ram	a male sheep.	noun	6	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
ramble	to wander around in a leisurely, aimless manner	verb (used without object)	13	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
ramification	the act or process of ramifying.	noun	22	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
ramify	to divide or spread out into branches or branchlike parts; extend into subdivisions.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
ramp	a sloping surface connecting two levels; incline.	noun	10	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
rampant	violent in action or spirit; raging; furious	adjective	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
rampart	Fortification.    a broad elevation or mound of earth raised as a fortification around a place and usually capped with a stone or earth parapet.    such an elevation together with the parapet.  	noun	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
ramshackle	loosely made or held together; rickety; shaky	adjective	23	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
rancid	having a rank, unpleasant, stale smell or taste, as through decomposition, especially of fats or oils	adjective	11	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
rancor	bitter, rankling resentment or ill will; hatred; malice.	noun	10	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
random	proceeding, made, or occurring without definite aim, reason, or pattern	adjective	11	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
rank	a number of persons forming a separate class in a social hierarchy or in any graded body.	noun	9	4-All English speakers likely know this word
rankle	(of unpleasant feelings, experiences, etc.) to continue to cause keen irritation or bitter resentment within the mind; fester; be painful.	verb (used without object)	12	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
ransack	to search thoroughly or vigorously through (a house, receptacle, etc.)	verb (used with object)	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
rant	to speak or declaim extravagantly or violently; talk in a wild or vehement way; rave	verb (used without object)	5	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
rapacious	given to seizing for plunder or the satisfaction of greed.	adjective	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
rapport	relation; connection, especially harmonious or sympathetic relation	noun	13	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
rapt	deeply engrossed or absorbed	adjective	7	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
rapture	ecstatic joy or delight; joyful ecstasy.	noun	11	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
rare	coming or occurring far apart in time; unusual; uncommon	adjective	4	11-All English speakers likely know this word
rarefied	extremely high or elevated; lofty; exalted	adjective	12	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
rasp	to scrape or abrade with a rough instrument.	verb (used with object)	7	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
raspy	harsh; grating; 	adjective	10	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
ratify	to confirm by expressing consent, approval, or formal sanction	verb (used with object)	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
ratiocination	the process of logical reasoning.	noun	18	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
ration	a fixed allowance of provisions or food, especially for soldiers or sailors or for civilians during a shortage	noun	7	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
rational	agreeable to reason; reasonable; sensible	adjective	10	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
rationale	the fundamental reason or reasons serving to account for something.	noun	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
rationalize	to ascribe (one's acts, opinions, etc.) to causes that superficially seem reasonable and valid but that actually are unrelated to the true, possibly unconscious and often less creditable or agreeable causes.	verb (used with object)	22	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
raucous	harsh; strident; grating	adjective	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
ravage	to work havoc upon; damage or mar by ravages	verb (used with object)	12	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
rave	to talk wildly, as in delirium.	verb (used without object)	8	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
ravel	to disentangle or 	verb (used with object)	10	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
ravenous	extremely hungry; famished; voracious	adjective	14	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
ravine	a narrow steep-sided valley commonly eroded by running water.	noun	11	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
raze	to tear down; demolish; level to the ground	verb (used with object)	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
reactionary	of, pertaining to, marked by, or favoring 	adjective	17	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
realm	a royal domain; kingdom	noun	9	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
reaper	a machine for cutting standing grain; 	noun	9	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
rebate	a return of part of the original payment for some service or merchandise; partial refund.	noun	9	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
rebuff	a blunt or abrupt rejection, as of a person making advances.	noun	16	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
rebuke	to express sharp, stern disapproval of; reprove; reprimand.	verb (used with object)	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
rebus	a representation of a word or phrase by pictures, symbols, etc., that suggest that word or phrase or its syllables	noun	9	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
rebuttal	an act of 	noun	13	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
recalcitrant	resisting authority or control; not obedient or compliant; refractory.	adjective	20	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
recant	to withdraw or disavow (a statement, opinion, etc.), especially formally; retract.	verb (used with object)	10	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
recapitulate	to review by a brief summary, as at the end of a speech or discussion; summarize.	verb (used with object)	20	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
recast	to 	verb (used with object)	9	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
receptive	having the quality of 	adjective	19	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
recess	temporary withdrawal or cessation from the usual work or activity.	noun	9	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
recession	the act of 	noun	13	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
recidivism	repeated or habitual relapse, as into crime.	noun	21	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
recipient	a person or thing that 	noun	16	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
reciprocal	given or felt by each toward the other; mutual	adjective	20	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
reciprocate	to give, feel, etc., in return.	verb (used with object)	20	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
recital	a musical entertainment given usually by a single performer or by a performer and one or more accompanists.	noun	11	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
recite	to repeat the words of, as from memory, especially in a formal manner	verb (used with object)	9	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
reckon	to count, compute, or calculate, as in number or amount.	verb (used with object)	14	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
recline	to lean or lie back; rest in a recumbent position.	verb (used without object)	12	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
recluse	a person who lives in seclusion or apart from society, often for religious meditation.	noun	12	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
reconcile	to cause (a person) to accept or be resigned to something not desired	verb (used with object)	17	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
recondite	dealing with very profound, difficult, or abstruse subject matter	adjective	14	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
reconnaissance	the act of 	noun	23	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
recount	to 	verb (used with object)	12	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
recourse	access or resort to a person or thing for help or protection	noun	12	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
recreant	cowardly or craven.	adjective	12	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
recriminate	to bring a countercharge against an accuser.	verb (used without object)	18	66-Few English speakers likely know this word
rectify	to make, put, or set right; remedy; correct	verb (used with object)	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
rectitude	rightness of principle or conduct; moral virtue	noun	14	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
recumbent	lying down; reclining; leaning.	adjective	20	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
recuperate	to recover from sickness or exhaustion; regain health or strength.	verb (used without object)	17	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
recurrent	that 	adjective	14	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
redolent	having a pleasant odor; fragrant.	adjective	11	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
redoubtable	that is to be feared; formidable.	adjective	20	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
redress	to 	verb (used with object)	8	67-Few English speakers likely know this word
reduce	to bring down to a smaller extent, size, amount, number, etc.	verb (used with object)	11	11-All English speakers likely know this word
redundant	characterized by verbosity or unnecessary repetition in expressing ideas; prolix	adjective	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
reek	a strong, unpleasant smell.	noun	8	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
refectory	a dining hall in a religious house, a college, or other institution.	noun	17	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
referendum	the principle or practice of referring measures proposed or passed by a legislative body to the vote of the electorate for approval or rejection.  Compare  	noun	19	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
refraction	Physics. the change of direction of a ray of light, sound, heat, or the like, in passing obliquely from one medium into another in which its wave velocity is different.	noun	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
refractory	hard or impossible to manage; stubbornly disobedient	adjective	18	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
refrain	to abstain from an impulse to say or do something (often followed by from)	verb (used without object)	11	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
refulgent	shining brightly; radiant; gleaming	adjective	17	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
refurbish	to 	verb (used with object)	18	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
refuse	to decline to accept (something offered)	verb (used with object)	10	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
refute	to prove to be false or erroneous, as an opinion or charge.	verb (used with object)	10	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
regal	of or relating to a king; royal	adjective	8	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
regale	to entertain lavishly or agreeably; delight.	verb (used with object)	9	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
regatta	a boat race, as of rowboats, yachts, or other vessels.	noun	9	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
regeneration	act of 	noun	16	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
regent	a person who exercises the ruling power in a kingdom during the minority, absence, or disability of the sovereign.	noun	9	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
regicide	the killing of a king.	noun	14	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
regime	a mode or system of rule or government	noun	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
regimen	Medicine/Medical. a regulated course, as of diet, exercise, or manner of living, intended to preserve or restore health or to attain some result.	noun	13	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
regiment	Military. a unit of ground forces, consisting of two or more battalions or battle groups, a headquarters unit, and certain supporting units.	noun	14	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
rehabilitate	to restore to a condition of good health, ability to work, or the like.	verb (used with object)	18	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
reimburse	to make repayment to for expense or loss incurred	verb (used with object)	16	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
reinstate	to put back or establish again, as in a former position or state	verb (used with object)	10	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
reiterate	to say or do again or repeatedly; repeat, often excessively.	verb (used with object)	9	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
rejoinder	an answer to a reply; response.	noun	20	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
rejuvenate	to make young again; restore to youthful vigor, appearance, etc.	verb (used with object)	25	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
relapse	to fall or slip back into a former state, practice, etc.	verb (used without object)	11	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
relegate	to send or consign to an inferior position, place, or condition	verb (used with object)	11	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
relent	to soften in feeling, temper, or determination; become more mild, compassionate, or forgiving.	verb (used without object)	8	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
relevant	bearing upon or connected with the matter in hand; pertinent	adjective	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
relic	a surviving memorial of something past.	noun	9	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
relinquish	to renounce or surrender (a possession, right, etc.)	verb (used with object)	24	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
relish	liking or enjoyment of the taste of something.	noun	9	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
remediable	capable of being 	adjective	18	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
reminiscence	the act or process of recalling past experiences, events, etc.	noun	23	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
reminiscent	awakening memories of something similar; suggestive (usually followed by of)	adjective	19	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
remiss	negligent, careless, or slow in performing one's duty, business, etc.	adjective	9	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
remission	the act of remitting.	noun	13	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
remit	to transmit or send (money, a check, etc.) to a person or place, usually in payment.	verb (used with object)	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
remittance	the sending of money, checks, etc., to a recipient at a distance.	noun	17	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
remnant	a 	noun	12	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
remonstrate	to say or plead in protest, objection, or disapproval.	verb (used with object)	15	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
remorse	deep and painful regret for wrongdoing; compunction.	noun	10	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
remunerative	affording remuneration; profitable	adjective	21	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
rend	to separate into parts with force or violence	verb (used with object)	6	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
render	to cause to be or become; make	verb (used with object)	8	6-All English speakers likely know this word
rendezvous	an agreement between two or more persons to meet at a certain time and place.	noun	26	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
rendition	the act of 	noun	12	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
renegade	a person who deserts a party or cause for another.	noun	12	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
renege	Cards. to play a card that is not of the suit led when one can follow suit; break a rule of play.	verb (used without object)	9	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
renounce	to give up or put aside voluntarily	verb (used with object)	14	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
renovate	to restore to good condition; make new or as if new again; repair.	verb (used with object)	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
renown	widespread and high repute; fame.	noun	11	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
reparable	capable of being 	adjective	16	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
reparation	the making of amends for wrong or injury done	noun	14	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
repartee	a quick, witty reply.	noun	11	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
repast	a quantity of 	noun	9	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
repeal	to revoke or withdraw formally or officially	verb (used with object)	10	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
repel	to drive or force back (an assailant, invader, etc.).	verb (used with object)	9	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
repellent	causing distaste or aversion; 	adjective	15	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
repercussion	an effect or result, often indirect or remote, of some event or action	noun	20	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
repertoire	the list of dramas, operas, parts, pieces, etc., that a company, actor, singer, or the like, is prepared to perform.	noun	13	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
repine	to be fretfully discontented; fret; complain.	verb (used without object)	10	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
replenish	to make full or complete again, as by supplying what is lacking, used up, etc.	verb (used with object)	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
replete	abundantly supplied or provided; filled (usually followed by with)	adjective	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
replica	a copy or reproduction of a work of art produced by the maker of the original or under his or her supervision.	noun	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
replicate	Also, replicated. folded; bent back on itself.	adjective	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
repose	to 	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	9	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
repository	a receptacle or place where things are deposited, stored, or offered for sale	noun	15	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
reprehensible	deserving of reproof, rebuke, or censure; blameworthy.	adjective	23	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
repress	to 	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	10	66-Few English speakers likely know this word
reprieve	to delay the impending punishment or sentence of (a condemned person).	verb (used with object)	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
reprimand	a severe reproof or rebuke, especially a formal one by a person in authority.	noun	17	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
reprisal	(in warfare) retaliation against an enemy, for injuries received, by the infliction of equal or greater injuries.	noun	12	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
reprise	Usually, reprises. Law. an annual deduction, duty, or payment out of a manor or estate, as an annuity or the like.	noun	10	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
reproach	to find fault with (a person, group, etc.); blame; censure.	verb (used with object)	16	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
reprobate	a depraved, unprincipled, or wicked person	noun	15	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
reprobation	disapproval, condemnation, or censure.	noun	18	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
reprove	to 	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	14	67-Few English speakers likely know this word
repudiate	to reject as having no authority or binding force	verb (used with object)	14	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
repugnance	the state of being 	noun	21	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
repulse	to drive back; 	verb (used with object)	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
repulsion	the act of 	noun	15	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
reputable	held in good 	adjective	17	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
reputed	reported or supposed to be such	adjective	12	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
requiem	Roman Catholic Church.    Also called Requiem Mass. the Mass celebrated for the repose of the souls of the dead.    a celebration of this Mass.    a plainsong setting for this Mass.  	noun	20	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
requisite		adjective	19	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
requisition	the act of 	noun	22	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
requite	to make repayment or return for (service, benefits, etc.).	verb (used with object)	17	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
rescind	to abrogate; annul; revoke; repeal.	verb (used with object)	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
resentment	the feeling of displeasure or indignation at some act, remark, person, etc., regarded as causing injury or insult.	noun	15	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
reserve	to 	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	11	67-Few English speakers likely know this word
residual	pertaining to or constituting a residue or remainder; remaining; leftover.	adjective	11	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
residue	something that remains after a part is removed, disposed of, or used; remainder; rest; remnant.	noun	9	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
resign	to sign again.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	9	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
resignation	the act of 	noun	15	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
resilient	springing back; rebounding.	adjective	11	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
resolution	a formal expression of opinion or intention made, usually after voting, by a formal organization, a legislature, a club, or other group.  Compare  	noun	13	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
resolve	to come to a definite or earnest decision about; determine (to do something)	verb (used with object)	12	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
resonant		adjective	10	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
resort	to 	verb (used with object)	6	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
resound	to 	verb (used without object), verb (used with object)	10	67-Few English speakers likely know this word
resourceful	able to deal skillfully and promptly with new situations, difficulties, etc.	adjective	20	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
respiration	the act of respiring; inhalation and exhalation of air; breathing.	noun	15	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
respite	a delay or cessation for a time, especially of anything distressing or trying; an interval of relief	noun	10	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
resplendent	shining brilliantly; gleaming; splendid	adjective	18	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
responsiveness	the quality or state of being 	noun	23	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
restitution	reparation made by giving an equivalent or compensation for loss, damage, or injury caused; indemnification.	noun	13	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
restive	impatient of control, restraint, or delay, as persons; restless; uneasy.	adjective	11	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
restraint	a 	noun	10	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
resumption	the act of 	noun	18	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
resurge	to rise again, as from desuetude or from virtual extinction.	verb (used without object)	10	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
resurrect	to raise from the dead; bring to life again.	verb (used with object)	13	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
resuscitate	to revive, especially from apparent death or from unconsciousness.	verb (used with object)	15	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
retain	to keep possession of.	verb (used with object)	7	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
retaliate	to return like for like, especially evil for evil	verb (used without object)	10	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
retard	to make slow; delay the development or progress of (an action, process, etc.); hinder or impede.	verb (used with object)	7	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
retentive	tending or serving to 	adjective	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
reticent	disposed to be silent or not to speak freely; reserved.	adjective	12	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
retinue	a body of retainers in attendance upon an important personage; suite.	noun	9	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
retiring	that 	adjective	11	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
retort	to reply to, usually in a sharp or retaliatory way; reply in kind to.	verb (used with object)	6	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
retract	to draw back or in	verb (used with object)	10	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
retrench	to cut down, reduce, or diminish; curtail (expenses).	verb (used with object)	14	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
retribution	requital according to merits or deserts, especially for evil.	noun	16	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
retrieve	to recover or regain	verb (used with object)	12	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
retroactive	operative with respect to past occurrences, as a statute; retrospective	adjective	18	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
retrograde	moving backward; having a backward motion or direction; retiring or retreating.	adjective	13	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
retrospective	directed to the past; contemplative of past situations, events, etc.	adjective	23	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
revelry		noun	14	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
reverberate	to reecho or resound	verb (used without object)	18	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
reverend	(initial capital letter) (used as a title of respect applied or prefixed to the name of a member of the clergy or a religious order)	adjective	14	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
reverent	feeling, exhibiting, or characterized by 	adjective	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
reverie	a state of dreamy meditation or fanciful musing	noun	11	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
revert	to return to a former habit, practice, belief, condition, etc.	verb (used without object)	10	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
revile	to assail with contemptuous or opprobrious language; address or speak of abusively.	verb (used with object)	11	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
revoke	to take back or withdraw; annul, cancel, or reverse; rescind or repeal	verb (used with object)	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
revulsion	a strong feeling of repugnance, distaste, or dislike	noun	16	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
rhapsodize	to talk with extravagant enthusiasm.	verb (used without object)	25	70-Few English speakers likely know this word
rhapsody	Music. an instrumental composition irregular in form and suggestive of improvisation.	noun	16	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
rhetoric	(in writing or speech) the undue use of exaggeration or display; bombast.	noun	13	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
ribald	vulgar or indecent in speech, language, etc.; coarsely mocking, abusive, or irreverent; scurrilous.	adjective	11	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
rickety	likely to fall or collapse; shaky	adjective	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
riddle	a question or statement so framed as to exercise one's ingenuity in answering it or discovering its meaning; conundrum.	noun	9	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
rider	a person who rides a horse or other animal, a bicycle, etc.	noun	6	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
rife	of common or frequent occurrence; prevalent; in widespread existence, activity, or use	adjective	7	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
rift	an opening made by splitting, cleaving, etc.; fissure; cleft; chink.	noun	7	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
rig	Chiefly Nautical.    to put in proper order for working or use.    to fit (a ship, mast, etc.) with the necessary shrouds, stays, etc.    to fit (shrouds, stays, sails, etc.) to the mast, yard, or the like.  	verb (used with object)	5	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
righteous	characterized by uprightness or morality	adjective	14	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
rightful	having a valid or just claim, as to some property or position; legitimate	adjective	17	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
rigid	stiff or unyielding; not pliant or flexible; hard	adjective	8	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
rigor	strictness, severity, or harshness, as in dealing with people.	noun	7	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
rile	to irritate or vex.	verb (used with object)	5	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
rip	to cut or tear apart in a rough or vigorous manner	verb (used with object)	6	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
rivet	a metal pin for passing through holes in two or more plates or pieces to hold them together, usually made with a head at one end, the other end being hammered into a head after insertion.	noun	9	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
riveting	a metal pin for passing through holes in two or more plates or pieces to hold them together, usually made with a head at one end, the other end being hammered into a head after insertion.	noun	15	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
rivulet	a small stream; streamlet; brook.	noun	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
robust	strong and healthy; hardy; vigorous	adjective	10	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
rococo	a style of architecture and decoration, originating in France about 1720, evolved from Baroque types and distinguished by its elegant refinement in using different materials for a delicate overall effect and by its ornament of shellwork, foliage, etc.	noun	12	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
roil	to render (water, wine, etc.) turbid by stirring up sediment.	verb (used with object)	5	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
rolling	the action, motion, or sound of anything that 	noun	12	9-All English speakers likely know this word
romp	to play or frolic in a lively or boisterous manner.	verb (used without object)	10	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
rooster	the male of domestic fowl and certain game birds; cock.	noun	7	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
roseate	tinged with rose; rosy	adjective	7	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
roster	a list of persons or groups, as of military personnel or units with their turns or periods of duty.	noun	6	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
rostrum	any platform, stage, or the like, for public speaking.	noun	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
rote	routine; a fixed, habitual, or mechanical course of procedure	noun	4	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
rotund	round in shape; rounded	adjective	9	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
rotunda	a round building, especially one with a dome.	noun	10	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
rotundity	the condition or quality of roundness or plumpness, as of an object or person.	noun	14	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
roue	a dissolute and licentious man; rake.	noun	5	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
rousing	exciting; stirring	adjective	11	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
rout	a defeat attended with disorderly flight; dispersal of a defeated force in complete disorder	noun	5	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
rubble	broken bits and pieces of anything, as that which is demolished	noun	14	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
rubric	a title, heading, direction, or the like, in a manuscript, book, statute, etc., written or printed in red or otherwise distinguished from the rest of the text.	noun	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
ruddy	of or having a fresh, healthy red color	adjective	10	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
rudimentary	pertaining to 	adjective	19	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
rue	to feel sorrow over; repent of; regret bitterly	verb (used with object)	4	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
ruffian	a tough, lawless person; roughneck; bully.	noun	15	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
rumble	to make a deep, heavy, somewhat muffled, continuous sound, as thunder.	verb (used without object)	14	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
ruminant	any even-toed, hoofed mammal of the suborder Ruminantia, being comprised of cloven-hoofed, cud-chewing quadrupeds, and including, besides domestic cattle, bison, buffalo, deer, antelopes, giraffes, camels, and chevrotains.	noun	14	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
ruminate	to chew the cud, as a 	verb (used without object)	13	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
rummage	to search thoroughly or actively through (a place, receptacle, etc.), especially by moving around, turning over, or looking through contents.	verb (used with object)	16	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
run-down	fatigued; weary; exhausted.	adjective	5	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
runic	consisting of or set down in 	adjective	10	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
ruse	a trick, stratagem, or artifice.	noun	5	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
rustic	of, relating to, or living in the country, as distinguished from towns or cities; rural.	adjective	10	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
rusticate	to go to the country.	verb (used without object)	13	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
rustle	to make a succession of slight, soft sounds, as of parts rubbing gently one on another, as leaves, silks, or papers.	verb (used without object)	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
ruthless	without pity or compassion; cruel; merciless	adjective	12	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
saboteur	a person who commits or practices sabotage.	noun	12	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
saccharine	of the nature of or resembling that of sugar	adjective	19	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
sacrilegious	pertaining to or involving 	adjective	19	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
sacrosanct	extremely sacred or inviolable	adjective	17	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
sadism	Psychiatry. the condition in which sexual gratification depends on causing pain or degradation to others.  Compare  	noun	10	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
saga	a medieval Icelandic or Norse prose narrative of achievements and events in the history of a personage, family, etc.	noun	6	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
sagacious	having or showing acute mental discernment and keen practical sense; shrewd	adjective	15	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
sage	a profoundly wise person; a person famed for wisdom.	noun	6	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
salacious	lustful or lecherous.	adjective	14	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
salient	prominent or conspicuous	adjective	9	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
saline	of, containing, or resembling common table salt; salty or saltlike	adjective	8	7-All English speakers likely know this word
sallow	of a sickly, yellowish color	adjective	11	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
salubrious	favorable to or promoting health; healthful	adjective	16	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
salutary	favorable to or promoting health; healthful.	adjective	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
salvage	the act of 	noun	14	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
sanctimonious	making a hypocritical show of religious devotion, piety, righteousness, etc.	adjective	22	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
sanction	authoritative permission or approval, as for an action.	noun	13	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
sanctuary	a sacred or holy place.	noun	16	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
sanguinary	full of or characterized by bloodshed; bloody	adjective	17	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
sanguine	cheerfully optimistic, hopeful, or confident	adjective	13	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
sap	the juice or vital circulating fluid of a plant, especially of a woody plant.	noun	6	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
sarcasm	harsh or bitter derision or irony.	noun	13	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
sardonic	characterized by bitter or scornful derision; mocking; cynical; sneering	adjective	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
sartorial	of or relating to tailors or their trade	adjective	10	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
sate	to satisfy (any appetite or desire) fully.	verb (used with object)	4	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
satellite	Astronomy. a natural body that revolves around a planet; a moon.	noun	11	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
satiate	to supply with anything to excess, so as to disgust or weary; surfeit.	verb (used with object)	7	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
satire	the use of irony, sarcasm, ridicule, or the like, in exposing, denouncing, or deriding vice, folly, etc.	noun	6	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
satirical	of, pertaining to, containing, or characterized by 	adjective	13	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
saturate	to cause (a substance) to unite with the greatest possible amount of another substance, through solution, chemical combination, or the like.	verb (used with object)	9	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
saturnine	sluggish in temperament; gloomy; taciturn.	adjective	12	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
satyr	Classical Mythology. one of a class of woodland deities, attendant on Bacchus, represented as part human, part horse, and sometimes part goat and noted for riotousness and lasciviousness.	noun	7	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
saunter	to walk with a leisurely gait; stroll	verb (used without object)	9	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
savant	a person of profound or extensive learning; learned scholar.	noun	11	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
savor	the quality in a substance that affects the sense of taste or of smell.	noun	9	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
savory	pleasant or agreeable in taste or smell	adjective	12	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
scabbard	a sheath for a sword or the like.	noun	18	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
scad	any carangid fish of the genus Decapterus, inhabiting tropical and subtropical shore waters.	noun	8	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
scaffold	a temporary structure for holding workers and materials during the erection, repair, or decoration of a building.	noun	19	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
scale	Zoology.    one of the thin, flat, horny plates forming the covering of certain animals, as snakes, lizards, and pangolins.    one of the hard, bony or dentinal plates, either flat or denticulate, forming the covering of certain other animals, as fishes.  	noun	9	4-All English speakers likely know this word
scanty	scant in amount, quantity, etc.; barely sufficient.	adjective	12	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
scapegoat	a person or group made to bear the blame for others or to suffer in their place.	noun	17	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
scavenge	to take or gather (something usable) from discarded material.	verb (used with object)	18	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
scenario	an outline of the plot of a dramatic work, giving particulars as to the scenes, characters, situations, etc.	noun	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
schematic	pertaining to or of the nature of a 	adjective	20	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
scheme	a plan, design, or program of action to be followed; project.	noun	14	9-All English speakers likely know this word
schism	division or disunion, especially into mutually opposed parties.	noun	14	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
scintilla	a minute particle; spark; trace	noun	15	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
scintillate	to emit sparks.	verb (used without object)	17	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
scion	a descendant.	noun	9	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
scoff	to speak derisively; mock; jeer (often followed by at)	verb (used without object)	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
scorch	to affect the color, taste, etc., of by 	verb (used with object)	14	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
score	the record of points or strokes made by the competitors in a game or match.	noun	8	6-All English speakers likely know this word
scotch	to put a definite end to; crush; stamp out; foil	verb (used with object)	14	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
scourge	a whip or lash, especially for the infliction of punishment or torture.	noun	13	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
scowl	to draw down or contract the brows in a sullen, displeased, or angry manner.	verb (used without object)	12	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
scrap	a small piece or portion; fragment	noun	11	11-All English speakers likely know this word
scrappy	made up of 	adjective	18	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
scraps	a small piece or portion; fragment	noun	11	11-All English speakers likely know this word
screech	to utter or make a harsh, shrill cry or sound	verb (used without object)	15	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
scrimmage	a rough or vigorous struggle.	noun	20	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
scruple	a moral or ethical consideration or standard that acts as a restraining force or inhibits certain actions.	noun	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
scrupulous	having 	adjective	20	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
scrutinize	to examine in detail with careful or critical attention.	verb (used with object)	24	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
scuffle	to struggle or fight in a rough, confused manner.	verb (used without object)	18	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
scurrilous	grossly or obscenely abusive	adjective	16	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
scurry	to go or move quickly or in haste.	verb (used without object)	12	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
scurvy	Pathology. a disease marked by swollen and bleeding gums, livid spots on the skin, prostration, etc., due to a diet lacking in vitamin C.	noun	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
scuttle	a deep bucket for carrying coal.	noun	12	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
seamy	unpleasant or sordid; low; disagreeable	adjective	10	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
sear	to burn or char the surface of	verb (used with object)	4	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
season	one of the four periods of the year (spring, summer, autumn, and winter), beginning astronomically at an equinox or solstice, but geographically at different dates in different climates.	noun	7	4-All English speakers likely know this word
seasonable	suitable to or characteristic of the 	adjective	15	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
seasonal	pertaining to, dependent on, or accompanying the 	adjective	10	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
seasoned	one of the four periods of the year (spring, summer, autumn, and winter), beginning astronomically at an equinox or solstice, but geographically at different dates in different climates.	noun	10	4-All English speakers likely know this word
secession	an act or instance of 	noun	13	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
seclusion	an act of 	noun	15	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
secrete	to discharge, generate, or release by the process of 	verb (used with object)	10	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
sect	a body of persons adhering to a particular religious faith; a religious denomination.	noun	7	4-All English speakers likely know this word
sectarian	of or relating to 	adjective	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
secular	of or relating to worldly things or to things that are not regarded as religious, spiritual, or sacred; temporal	adjective	12	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
sedate	calm, quiet, or composed; undisturbed by passion or excitement	adjective	7	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
sedentary	characterized by or requiring a sitting posture	adjective	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
sedition	incitement of discontent or rebellion against a government.	noun	10	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
seduce	to lead astray, as from duty, rectitude, or the like; corrupt.	verb (used with object)	11	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
sedulous	diligent in application or attention; persevering; assiduous.	adjective	12	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
seedy	abounding in 	adjective	8	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
seemly	fitting or becoming with respect to propriety or good taste; decent; decorous	adjective	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
seep	to pass, flow, or ooze gradually through a porous substance	verb (used without object)	7	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
seethe	to surge or foam as if boiling.	verb (used without object)	8	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
seine	a fishing net that hangs vertically in the water, having floats at the upper edge and sinkers at the lower.	noun	6	11-All English speakers likely know this word
seismic	pertaining to, of the nature of, or caused by an earthquake or vibration of the earth, whether due to natural or artificial causes.	adjective	13	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
self-indulgence	indulging one's own desires, passions, whims, etc., especially without restraint.	adjective	8	77-Few English speakers likely know this word
self-righteous	confident of one's own righteousness, especially when smugly moralistic and intolerant of the opinions and behavior of others.	adjective	8	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
semblance	outward aspect or appearance.	noun	20	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
seminal	pertaining to, containing, or consisting of semen.	adjective	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
seminary	a special school providing education in theology, religious history, etc., primarily to prepare students for the priesthood, ministry, or rabbinate.	noun	14	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
senility	the state of being 	noun	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
sensitization	the state or process of being sensitized.	noun	24	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
sensual	pertaining to, inclined to, or preoccupied with the gratification of the senses or appetites; carnal; fleshly.	adjective	10	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
sensuous	perceived by or affecting the 	adjective	11	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
sententious	abounding in pithy aphorisms or maxims	adjective	14	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
sentient	having the power of perception by the senses; conscious.	adjective	10	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
sentimental	expressive of or appealing to 	adjective	17	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
sentinel	a person or thing that watches or stands as if watching.	noun	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
septic	pertaining to or of the nature of 	adjective	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
sepulcher	a tomb, grave, or burial place.	noun	19	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
sequester	to remove or withdraw into solitude or retirement; seclude.	verb (used with object)	19	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
sere	dry; withered.	adjective	4	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
serendipity	an aptitude for making desirable discoveries by accident.	noun	18	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
serenity	the state or quality of being 	noun	11	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
serpentine	of, characteristic of, or resembling a 	adjective	15	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
serrated	having a notched edge or sawlike teeth, especially for cutting; 	adjective	9	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
servile	slavishly submissive or obsequious; fawning	adjective	12	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
servitude	slavery or bondage of any kind	noun	15	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
sever	to separate (a part) from the whole, as by cutting or the like.	verb (used with object)	9	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
severity	harshness, sternness, or rigor	noun	14	10-All English speakers likely know this word
sextant	an astronomical instrument used to determine latitude and longitude at sea by measuring angular distances, especially the altitudes of sun, moon, and stars.	noun	15	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
shack	a rough cabin; shanty.	noun	14	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
shackle	a ring or other fastening, as of iron, for securing the wrist, ankle, etc.; fetter.	noun	17	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
shade	the comparative darkness caused by the interception or screening of rays of light from an object, place, or area.	noun	8	8-All English speakers likely know this word
sham	something that is not what it purports to be; a spurious imitation; fraud or hoax.	noun	9	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
shambles	shambles, (used with a singular or plural verb)    a slaughterhouse.    any place of carnage.    any scene of destruction	noun	17	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
Shangri-la	an imaginary paradise on earth, especially a remote and exotic utopia.	noun	0	70-Few English speakers likely know this word
shard	a fragment, especially of broken earthenware.	noun	8	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
shaving	Often, shavings. a very thin piece or slice, especially of wood.	noun	16	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
sheaf	one of the bundles in which cereal plants, as wheat, rye, etc., are bound after reaping.	noun	10	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
shear	to cut (something).	verb (used with object)	7	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
sheathe	to put (a sword, dagger, etc.) into a 	verb (used with object)	11	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
shed	a slight or rude structure built for shelter, storage, etc.	noun	7	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
sheer	transparently thin; diaphanous, as some fabrics	adjective	7	11-All English speakers likely know this word
sherbet	a frozen fruit-flavored mixture, similar to an ice, but with milk, egg white, or gelatin added.	noun	12	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
shift	to put (something) aside and replace it by another or others; change or exchange	verb (used with object)	10	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
shimmer	to shine with or reflect a subdued, tremulous light; gleam faintly.	verb (used without object)	15	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
shirk	to evade (work, duty, responsibility, etc.).	verb (used with object)	11	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
shoddy	of poor quality or inferior workmanship	adjective	12	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
shoot	to hit, wound, damage, kill, or destroy with a missile discharged from a weapon.	verb (used with object)	7	11-All English speakers likely know this word
shove	to move along by force from behind; push.	verb (used with object)	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
shrew	a woman of violent temper and speech; termagant.	noun	10	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
shrewd	astute or sharp in practical matters	adjective	12	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
shudder	to tremble with a sudden convulsive movement, as from horror, fear, or cold.	verb (used without object)	12	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
shuffle	to walk without lifting the feet or with clumsy steps and a shambling gait.	verb (used without object)	17	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
shun	to keep away from (a place, person, object, etc.), from motives of dislike, caution, etc.; take pains to avoid.	verb (used with object)	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
shunt	to shove or turn (someone or something) aside or out of the way.	verb (used with object)	9	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
shyster	a lawyer who uses unprofessional or questionable methods.	noun	11	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
sibling	a brother or sister.	noun	14	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
sibylline	of, resembling, or characteristic of a sibyl; prophetic; oracular.	adjective	17	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
sidereal	determined by or from the stars	adjective	10	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
sidetrack	to move from the main 	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	17	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
significant	important; of consequence.	adjective	21	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
silt	earthy matter, fine sand, or the like carried by moving or running water and deposited as a sediment.	noun	5	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
simian	of or relating to an ape or monkey.	adjective	10	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
simper	to smile in a silly, self-conscious way.	verb (used without object)	12	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
simplistic	characterized by extreme simplism; oversimplified	adjective	20	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
simulate	to create a 	verb (used with object)	13	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
sinecure	an office or position requiring little or no work, especially one yielding profitable returns.	noun	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
sinewy	having strong 	adjective	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
singular	extraordinary; remarkable; exceptional	adjective	13	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
sinister	threatening or portending evil, harm, or trouble; ominous	adjective	9	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
sinuous	having many curves, bends, or turns; winding	adjective	10	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
siren	Classical Mythology. one of several sea nymphs, part woman and part bird, who lure mariners to destruction by their seductive singing.	noun	6	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
skeptic	a person who questions the validity or authenticity of something purporting to be factual.	noun	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
skiff	any of various types of boats small enough for sailing or rowing by one person.	noun	15	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
skim	to take up or remove (floating matter) from the surface of a liquid, as with a spoon or ladle	verb (used with object)	11	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
skimp	to scrimp.	verb (used without object)	15	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
skinflint	a mean, niggardly person; miser.	noun	19	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
skirmish	Military. a fight between small bodies of troops, especially advanced or outlying detachments of opposing armies.	noun	17	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
skittish	apt to start or shy	adjective	14	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
skulduggery	dishonorable proceedings; mean dishonesty or trickery	noun	25	70-Few English speakers likely know this word
skulk	to lie or keep in hiding, as for some evil reason	verb (used without object)	15	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
slack	not tight, taut, firm, or tense; loose	adjective	13	8-All English speakers likely know this word
slacken	to make or become less active, vigorous, intense, etc.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	16	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
slag	Also called 	noun	7	8-All English speakers likely know this word
slake	to allay (thirst, desire, wrath, etc.) by satisfying.	verb (used with object)	10	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
slander	defamation; calumny	noun	10	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
slap	a sharp blow or smack, especially with the open hand or with something flat.	noun	8	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
slapdash	in a hasty, haphazard manner	adverb	15	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
slaughter	the killing or butchering of cattle, sheep, etc., especially for food.	noun	15	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
slavish	of or befitting a 	adjective	14	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
sleazy	contemptibly low, mean, or disreputable	adjective	18	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
sledge	a vehicle of various forms, mounted on runners and often drawn by draft animals, used for traveling or for conveying loads over snow, ice, rough ground, etc.	noun	10	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
sleek	smooth or glossy, as hair, an animal, etc.	adjective	10	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
sleeper	a person or thing that sleeps.	noun	11	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
sleigh	a light vehicle on runners, usually open and generally horse-drawn, used especially for transporting persons over snow or ice.	noun	11	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
sleight	skill; dexterity.	noun	12	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
slew	simple past tense of 	verb	8	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
slick	smooth and glossy; sleek.	adjective	13	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
slight	small in amount, degree, etc.	adjective	11	9-All English speakers likely know this word
slink	to move or go in a furtive, abject manner, as from fear, cowardice, or shame.	verb (used without object)	11	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
slipshod	careless, untidy, or slovenly	adjective	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
slither	to slide down or along a surface, especially unsteadily, from side to side, or with some friction or noise	verb (used without object)	10	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
sloth	habitual disinclination to exertion; indolence; laziness.	noun	8	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
slough	an area of soft, muddy ground; swamp or swamplike region.	noun	12	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
slovenly	untidy or unclean in appearance or habits.	adjective	17	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
sluggard	a person who is habitually inactive or lazy.	noun	15	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
sluggish	indisposed to action or exertion; lacking in energy; lazy; indolent	adjective	16	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
sluice	an artificial channel for conducting water, often fitted with a gate (sluice gate) at the upper end for regulating the flow.	noun	11	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
slur	to pass over lightly or without due mention or consideration (often followed by over)	verb (used with object)	6	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
sly	cunning or wily	adjective	6	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
smart	to be a source of sharp, local, and usually superficial pain, as a wound.	verb (used without object)	8	7-All English speakers likely know this word
smattering	a slight, superficial, or introductory knowledge of something	noun	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
smear	to spread or daub (an oily, greasy, viscous, or wet substance) on or over something	verb (used with object)	8	11-All English speakers likely know this word
smelt	to fuse or melt (ore) in order to separate the metal contained.	verb (used with object)	9	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
smirk	to smile in an affected, smug, or offensively familiar way.	verb (used without object)	12	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
smolder	to burn without flame; undergo slow or suppressed combustion.	verb (used without object)	12	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
smother	to stifle or suffocate, as by smoke or other means of preventing free breathing.	verb (used with object)	12	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
smudge	a dirty mark or smear.	noun	13	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
smug	contentedly confident of one's ability, superiority, or correctness; complacent.	adjective	10	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
sneak	to go in a stealthy or furtive manner; slink; skulk.	verb (used without object)	10	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
snicker	to laugh in a half-suppressed, indecorous or disrespectful manner.	verb (used without object)	15	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
snip	to cut with a small, quick stroke, or a succession of such strokes, with scissors or the like.	verb (used with object)	8	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
snivel	to weep or cry with sniffling.	verb (used without object)	12	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
snub	to treat with disdain or contempt, especially by ignoring.	verb (used with object)	9	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
snuffle	to draw air into the nose for the purpose of smelling something; snuff.	verb (used without object)	16	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
soar	to fly upward, as a bird.	verb (used without object)	4	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
sober	not intoxicated or drunk.	adjective	8	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
sobriety	the state or quality of being 	noun	13	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
sodden	soaked with liquid or moisture; saturated.	adjective	9	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
sojourn	a temporary stay	noun	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
solace	comfort in sorrow, misfortune, or trouble; alleviation of distress or discomfort.	noun	10	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
solder	any of various alloys fused and applied to the joint between metal objects to unite them without heating the objects to the melting point.	noun	8	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
solecism	a nonstandard or ungrammatical usage, as unflammable and they was.	noun	15	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
solemnity	the state or character of being 	noun	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
solicit	to seek for (something) by entreaty, earnest or respectful request, formal application, etc.	verb (used with object)	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
solicitor	a person who 	noun	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
solicitous	anxious or concerned (usually followed by about, for, etc., or a clause)	adjective	15	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
soliloquy	an utterance or discourse by a person who is talking to himself or herself or is disregardful of or oblivious to any hearers present (often used as a device in drama to disclose a character's innermost thoughts)	noun	23	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
solitude	the state of being or living alone; seclusion	noun	11	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
solstice	Astronomy.    either of the two times a year when the sun is at its greatest distance from the celestial equator	noun	12	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
soluble	capable of being dissolved or liquefied	adjective	13	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
solvent	able to pay all just debts.	adjective	13	9-All English speakers likely know this word
somatic	of the body; bodily; physical.	adjective	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
somber	gloomily dark; shadowy; dimly lighted	adjective	12	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
somnambulist		noun	24	65-Few English speakers likely know this word
somnolent	sleepy; drowsy.	adjective	15	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
sonic	of or relating to sound.	adjective	9	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
sonnet	Prosody. a poem, properly expressive of a single, complete thought, idea, or sentiment, of 14 lines, usually in iambic pentameter, with rhymes arranged according to one of certain definite schemes, being in the strict or Italian form divided into a major group of 8 lines (the octave) followed by a minor group of 6 lines (the sestet), and in a common English form into 3 quatrains followed by a couplet.	noun	8	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
sonorous	giving out or capable of giving out a sound, especially a deep, resonant sound, as a thing or place	adjective	10	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
soothsayer	a person who professes to foretell events.	noun	14	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
sophist	(often initial capital letter) Greek History.    any of a class of professional teachers in ancient Greece who gave instruction in various fields, as in general culture, rhetoric, politics, or disputation.    a person belonging to this class at a later period who, while professing to teach skill in reasoning, concerned himself with ingenuity and specious effectiveness rather than soundness of argument.  	noun	12	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
sophisticated	(of a person, ideas, tastes, manners, etc.) altered by education, experience, etc., so as to be worldly-wise; not naive	adjective	22	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
sophistry	a subtle, tricky, superficially plausible, but generally fallacious method of reasoning.	noun	16	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
sophomoric	of or relating to a 	adjective	21	66-Few English speakers likely know this word
soporific	causing or tending to cause sleep.	adjective	18	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
sordid	morally ignoble or base; vile	adjective	8	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
sound	the sensation produced by stimulation of the organs of hearing by vibrations transmitted through the air or other medium.	noun	8	1-All English speakers likely know this word
sour	having an acid taste, resembling that of vinegar, lemon juice, etc.; tart.	adjective	5	6-All English speakers likely know this word
sovereign	a monarch; a king, queen, or other supreme ruler.	noun	16	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
sovereignty	the quality or state of being 	noun	20	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
sow	to scatter (seed) over land, earth, etc., for growth; plant.	verb (used with object)	6	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
spangle	a small, thin, often circular piece of glittering metal or other material, used especially for decorating garments.	noun	14	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
spare	to refrain from harming or destroying; leave uninjured; forbear to punish, hurt, or destroy	verb (used with object)	8	6-All English speakers likely know this word
sparse	thinly scattered or distributed	adjective	9	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
spartan	Also, Spartanic          	adjective	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
spasmodic	pertaining to or of the nature of a spasm; characterized by spasms.	adjective	19	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
spat	a petty quarrel.	noun	7	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
spate	a sudden, almost overwhelming, outpouring	noun	8	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
spatial	of or relating to 	adjective	11	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
spatula	an implement with a broad, flat, usually flexible blade, used for blending foods or removing them from cooking utensils, mixing drugs, spreading plasters and paints, etc.	noun	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
spawn	Zoology. the mass of eggs deposited by fishes, amphibians, mollusks, crustaceans, etc.	noun	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
specious	apparently good or right though lacking real merit; superficially pleasing or plausible	adjective	15	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
speck	a small spot differing in color or substance from that of the surface or material upon which it appears or lies	noun	15	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
spectral	of or relating to a specter; ghostly; phantom.	adjective	15	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
spectrum	Physics.    an array of entities, as light waves or particles, ordered in accordance with the magnitudes of a common physical property, as wavelength or mass	noun	18	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
speechless	temporarily deprived of speech by strong emotion, physical weakness, exhaustion, etc.	adjective	19	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
spendthrift	a person who 	noun	21	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
spin	to make (yarn) by drawing out, twisting, and winding fibers	verb (used with object)	8	9-All English speakers likely know this word
splice	to join together or unite (two ropes or parts of a rope) by the interweaving of strands.	verb (used with object)	13	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
spoilsport	a person whose selfish or unsportsmanlike attitudes or actions spoil the pleasure of others, as in a game or social gathering.	noun	17	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
spontaneity	the state, quality, or fact of being 	noun	18	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
spoof	a mocking imitation of someone or something, usually light and good-humored; lampoon or parody	noun	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
spoonerism	the transposition of initial or other sounds of words, usually by accident, as in a blushing crow for a crushing blow.	noun	17	63-Few English speakers likely know this word
sporadic	(of similar things or occurrences) appearing or happening at irregular intervals in time; occasional	adjective	15	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
sportive	playful or frolicsome; jesting, jocose, or merry	adjective	15	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
sprightly	animated, vivacious, or gay; lively.	adjective	19	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
sprout	to begin to grow; shoot forth, as a plant from a seed.	verb (used without object)	10	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
spruce	any evergreen, coniferous tree of the genus Picea, of the pine family, having short, angular, needle-shaped leaves attached singly around twigs and bearing hanging cones with persistent scales.	noun	13	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
spry	active; nimble; agile; energetic; brisk.	adjective	9	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
spurious	not genuine, authentic, or true; not from the claimed, pretended, or proper source; counterfeit.	adjective	13	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
spurn	to reject with disdain; scorn.	verb (used with object)	10	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
squabble	to engage in a petty quarrel.	verb (used without object)	25	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
squalor	the condition of being squalid; filth and misery.	noun	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
squander	to spend or use (money, time, etc.) extravagantly or wastefully (often followed by away).	verb (used with object)	20	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
squash	to press into a flat mass or pulp; crush	verb (used with object)	18	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
squat	to sit in a low or crouching position with the legs drawn up closely beneath or in front of the body; sit on one's haunches or heels.	verb (used without object)	15	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
squeamish	fastidious or dainty.	adjective	24	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
squelch	to strike or press with crushing force; crush down; squash.	verb (used with object)	23	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
staccato	shortened and detached when played or sung	adjective	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
stagnant	not flowing or running, as water, air, etc.	adjective	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
staid	of settled or sedate character; not flighty or capricious.	adjective	6	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
stalemate	Chess. a position of the pieces in which a player cannot move any piece except the king and cannot move the king without putting it in check.	noun	13	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
stalwart	strongly and stoutly built; sturdy and robust.	adjective	12	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
stamina	strength of physical constitution; power to endure disease, fatigue, privation, etc.	noun	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
stammer	to speak with involuntary breaks and pauses, or with spasmodic repetitions of syllables or sounds.	verb (used without object)	13	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
stamp	to strike or beat with a forcible, downward thrust of the foot.	verb (used with object)	11	6-All English speakers likely know this word
stampede	a sudden, frenzied rush or headlong flight of a herd of frightened animals, especially cattle or horses.	noun	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
stanch	to stop the flow of (a liquid, especially blood).	verb (used with object)	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
standstill	a state of cessation of movement or action; halt; stop	noun	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
stanza	an arrangement of a certain number of lines, usually four or more, sometimes having a fixed length, meter, or rhyme scheme, forming a division of a poem.	noun	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
stately	majestic; imposing in magnificence, elegance, etc.	adjective	10	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
static	pertaining to or characterized by a fixed or stationary condition.	adjective	9	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
statute	Law.    an enactment made by a legislature and expressed in a formal document.    the document in which such an enactment is expressed.  	noun	8	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
statutory	of, relating to, or of the nature of a 	adjective	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
steadfast	fixed in direction; steadily directed	adjective	13	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
stealth	secret, clandestine, or surreptitious procedure.	noun	10	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
steep	having an almost vertical slope or pitch, or a relatively high gradient, as a hill, an ascent, stairs, etc.	adjective	8	7-All English speakers likely know this word
stellar	of or relating to the stars; consisting of stars.	adjective	9	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
stem	the ascending axis of a plant, whether above or below ground, which ordinarily grows in an opposite direction to the root or descending axis.	noun	7	2-All English speakers likely know this word
stench	an offensive smell or odor; stink.	noun	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
stentorian	very loud or powerful in sound	adjective	12	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
sterile	free from living germs or microorganisms; aseptic	adjective	8	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
stickler	a person who insists on something unyieldingly (usually followed by for)	noun	16	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
stifle	to quell, crush, or end by force	verb (used with object)	10	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
stigma	a mark of disgrace or infamy; a stain or reproach, as on one's reputation.	noun	11	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
stilted	stiffly dignified or formal, as speech or literary style; pompous.	adjective	9	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
stink	to emit a strong offensive smell.	verb (used without object)	10	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
stint	to be frugal; get along on a scanty allowance	verb (used without object)	6	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
stint	to be frugal; get along on a scanty allowance	verb (used without object)	6	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
stipend	a periodic payment, especially a scholarship or fellowship allowance granted to a student.	noun	12	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
stipple	to paint, engrave, or draw by means of dots or small touches.	verb (used with object)	14	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
stipulate	to make an express demand or arrangement as a condition of agreement (often followed by for).	verb (used without object)	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
stock	a supply of goods kept on hand for sale to customers by a merchant, distributor, manufacturer, etc.; inventory.	noun	12	6-All English speakers likely know this word
stockade	Fortification. a defensive barrier consisting of strong posts or timbers fixed upright in the ground.	noun	16	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
stodgy	heavy, dull, or uninteresting; tediously commonplace; boring	adjective	11	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
stoic	of or relating to the school of philosophy founded by Zeno, who taught that people should be free from passion, unmoved by joy or grief, and submit without complaint to unavoidable necessity.	adjective	8	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
stoke	to poke, stir up, and feed (a fire).	verb (used with object)	9	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
stolid	not easily stirred or moved mentally; unemotional; impassive.	adjective	8	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
stoop	to bend the head and shoulders, or the body generally, forward and downward from an erect position	verb (used without object)	8	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
stout	bulky in figure; heavily built; corpulent; thickset; fat	adjective	6	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
straggle	to stray from the road, course, or line of march.	verb (used without object)	13	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
strangle	to kill by squeezing the throat in order to compress the windpipe and prevent the intake of air, as with the hands or a tightly drawn cord.	verb (used with object)	12	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
stratagem	a plan, scheme, or trick for surprising or deceiving an enemy.	noun	14	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
stratified	to form or place in 	verb (used with object)	14	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
stratum	a layer of material, naturally or artificially formed, often one of a number of parallel layers one upon another	noun	11	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
strew	to let fall in separate pieces or particles over a surface; scatter or sprinkle	verb (used with object)	8	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
striated	marked with striae; furrowed; striped; streaked.	adjective	9	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
stricture	a remark or comment, especially an adverse criticism	noun	13	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
strident	making or having a harsh sound; grating; creaking	adjective	10	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
stringent	rigorously binding or exacting; strict; severe	adjective	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
strut	to walk with a vain, pompous bearing, as with head erect and chest thrown out, as if expecting to impress observers.	verb (used without object)	6	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
studied	marked by or suggestive of conscious effort; not spontaneous or natural; affected	adjective	10	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
studious	disposed or given to diligent 	adjective	11	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
stultify	to make, or cause to appear, foolish or ridiculous.	verb (used with object)	15	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
stumble	to strike the foot against something, as in walking or running, so as to stagger or fall; trip.	verb (used without object)	15	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
stump	the lower end of a tree or plant left after the main part falls or is cut off; a standing tree trunk from which the upper part and branches have been removed.	noun	12	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
stun	to deprive of consciousness or strength by or as if by a blow, fall, etc.	verb (used with object)	6	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
stupefy	to put into a state of little or no sensibility; benumb the faculties of; put into a stupor.	verb (used with object)	16	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
stupor	suspension or great diminution of sensibility, as in disease or as caused by narcotics, intoxicants, etc.	noun	10	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
sturdy	strongly built; stalwart; robust	adjective	10	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
stygian	of or relating to the river Styx or to Hades.	adjective	12	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
stymie	Golf. (on a putting green) an instance of a ball's lying on a direct line between the cup and the ball of an opponent about to putt.	noun	11	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
suavity	a 	noun	14	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
subaltern	lower in rank; subordinate	adjective	15	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
subdue	to conquer and bring into subjection	verb (used with object)	12	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
subjective	existing in the mind; belonging to the thinking subject rather than to the object of thought (opposed to 	adjective	30	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
subjugate	to bring under complete control or subjection; conquer; master.	verb (used with object)	25	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
sublimate	Psychology. to divert the energy of (a sexual or other biological impulse) from its immediate goal to one of a more acceptable social, moral, or aesthetic nature or use.	verb (used with object)	17	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
sublime	elevated or lofty in thought, language, etc.	adjective	15	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
subliminal	existing or operating below the threshold of consciousness; being or employing stimuli insufficiently intense to produce a discrete sensation but often being or designed to be intense enough to influence the mental processes or the behavior of the individual	adjective	20	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
submerge	to put or sink below the surface of water or any other enveloping medium.	verb (used with object)	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
submissive	inclined or ready to 	adjective	21	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
subordinate	placed in or belonging to a lower order or rank.	adjective	17	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
suborn	to bribe or induce (someone) unlawfully or secretly to perform some misdeed or to commit a crime.	verb (used with object)	11	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
subpoena	the usual writ for the summoning of witnesses or the submission of evidence, as records or documents, before a court or other deliberative body.	noun	16	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
subsequent	occurring or coming later or after (often followed by to)	adjective	25	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
subservient	serving or acting in a subordinate capacity; subordinate.	adjective	20	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
subside	to sink to a low or lower level.	verb (used without object)	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
subsidiary	serving to assist or supplement; auxiliary; supplementary.	adjective	17	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
subsidy	a direct pecuniary aid furnished by a government to a private industrial undertaking, a charity organization, or the like.	noun	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
subsistence	the state or fact of subsisting.	noun	19	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
substantial	of ample or considerable amount, quantity, size, etc.	adjective	17	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
substantiate	to establish by proof or competent evidence	verb (used with object)	17	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
substantive	a noun.	noun	20	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
subsume	to consider or include (an idea, term, proposition, etc.) as part of a more comprehensive one.	verb (used with object)	15	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
subterfuge	an artifice or expedient used to evade a rule, escape a consequence, hide something, etc.	noun	20	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
subtlety	the state or quality of being 	noun	15	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
subversive	Also, subversionary          	adjective	22	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
succor	help; relief; aid; assistance.	noun	13	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
succulent	full of juice; juicy.	adjective	19	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
succumb	to give way to superior force; yield	verb (used without object)	21	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
suckle	to nurse at the breast or udder.	verb (used with object)	15	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
suffocate	to kill by preventing the access of air to the blood through the lungs or analogous organs, as gills; strangle.	verb (used with object)	19	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
suffragist	an advocate of the grant or extension of political 	noun	19	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
suffuse	to overspread with or as with a liquid, color, etc.	verb (used with object)	15	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
suitor	a man who courts or woos a woman.	noun	7	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
sullen	showing irritation or ill humor by a gloomy silence or reserve.	adjective	10	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
sully	to soil, stain, or tarnish.	verb (used with object)	10	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
sultry	oppressively hot and close or moist; sweltering	adjective	10	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
summation	the act or process of 	noun	17	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
sumptuous	entailing great expense, as from choice materials, fine work, etc.; costly	adjective	18	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
sunder	to separate; part; divide; sever.	verb (used with object)	9	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
sundry	various or diverse	adjective	11	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
superannuated	retired because of age or infirmity.	adjective	21	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
supercilious	haughtily disdainful or contemptuous, as a person or a facial expression.	adjective	21	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
supererogatory	going beyond the requirements of duty.	adjective	22	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
superficial	being at, on, or near the surface	adjective	22	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
superfluous	being more than is sufficient or required; excessive.	adjective	21	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
superimpose	to 	verb (used with object)	21	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
supernumerary	being in excess of the usual, proper, or prescribed number; additional; extra.	adjective	24	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
supersede	to replace in power, authority, effectiveness, acceptance, use, etc., as by another person or thing.	verb (used with object)	14	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
supine	lying on the back, face or front upward.	adjective	11	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
supplant	to take the place of (another), as through force, scheming, strategy, or the like.	verb (used with object)	17	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
supple	bending readily without breaking or becoming deformed; pliant; flexible	adjective	14	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
suppliant	a person who 	noun	18	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
supplicant		adjective	22	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
supplicate	to pray humbly; make humble and earnest entreaty or petition.	verb (used without object)	21	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
supposition	the act of 	noun	19	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
supposititious	fraudulently substituted or pretended; spurious; not genuine.	adjective	22	67-Few English speakers likely know this word
suppress	to put an end to the activities of (a person, body of persons, etc.)	verb (used with object)	15	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
surfeit	excess; an excessive amount	noun	11	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
surge	a strong, wavelike, forward movement, rush, or sweep	noun	8	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
surly	churlishly rude or bad-tempered	adjective	9	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
surmise	to think or infer without certain or strong evidence; conjecture; guess.	verb (used with object)	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
surmount	to mount upon; get on the top of; mount upon and cross over	verb (used with object)	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
surpass	to go beyond in amount, extent, or degree; be greater than; exceed.	verb (used with object)	11	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
surreptitious	obtained, done, made, etc., by stealth; secret or unauthorized; clandestine	adjective	18	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
surrogate	a person appointed to act for another; deputy.	noun	12	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
surveillance	a watch kept over a person, group, etc., especially over a suspect, prisoner, or the like	noun	23	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
susceptible	admitting or capable of some specified treatment	adjective	22	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
suspend	to hang by attachment to something above	verb (used with object)	13	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
suspense	a state or condition of mental uncertainty or excitement, as in awaiting a decision or outcome, usually accompanied by a degree of apprehension or anxiety.	noun	13	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
sustain	to support, hold, or bear up from below; bear the weight of, as a structure.	verb (used with object)	9	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
sustenance	means of 	noun	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
suture	Surgery.    a joining of the lips or edges of a wound or the like by stitching or some similar process.    a particular method of doing this.    one of the stitches or fastenings employed.  	noun	8	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
swagger	to walk or strut with a defiant or insolent air.	verb (used without object)	14	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
swamp	a tract of wet, spongy land, often having a growth of certain types of trees and other vegetation, but unfit for cultivation.	noun	14	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
swarm	a body of honeybees that emigrate from a hive and fly off together, accompanied by a queen, to start a new colony.	noun	11	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
swarthy	(of skin color, complexion, etc.) dark.	adjective	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
swathe	to wrap, bind, or swaddle with bands of some material; wrap up closely or fully.	verb (used with object)	11	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
sway	to move or swing to and fro, as something fixed at one end or resting on a support.	verb (used without object)	9	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
swear	to make a solemn declaration or affirmation by some sacred being or object, as a deity or the Bible.	verb (used without object)	8	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
swear-word	a word used in 	noun	16	70-Few English speakers likely know this word
swell	to grow in bulk, as by the absorption of moisture or the processes of growth.	verb (used without object)	10	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
swelter	to suffer from oppressive heat.	verb (used without object)	11	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
swerve	to turn aside abruptly in movement or direction; deviate suddenly from the straight or direct course.	verb (used without object)	13	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
swill	liquid or partly liquid food for animals, especially kitchen refuse given to swine; hogwash.	noun	10	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
swindler	to cheat (a person, business, etc.) out of money or other assets.	verb (used with object)	14	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
swipe	a strong, sweeping blow, as with a cricket bat or golf club.	noun	11	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
sybarite	(usually lowercase) a person devoted to luxury and pleasure.	noun	13	72-Few English speakers likely know this word
sycophant	a self-seeking, servile flatterer; fawning parasite.	noun	20	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
sylvan	of, relating to, or inhabiting the woods.	adjective	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
symbiosis	Biology.    the living together of two dissimilar organisms, as in mutualism, commensalism, amensalism, or parasitism.    (formerly) 	noun	17	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
symmetry	the correspondence in size, form, and arrangement of parts on opposite sides of a plane, line, or point; regularity of form or arrangement in terms of like, reciprocal, or corresponding parts.	noun	18	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
synchronous	occurring at the same time; coinciding in time; contemporaneous; simultaneous.	adjective	21	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
synoptic	pertaining to or constituting a 	adjective	17	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
synthesis	the combining of the constituent elements of separate material or abstract entities into a single or unified entity (opposed to 	noun	14	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
synthetic	of, pertaining to, proceeding by, or involving synthesis (opposed to 	adjective	17	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
tablet	a number of sheets of writing paper, business forms, etc., fastened together at the edge; pad.	noun	10	10-All English speakers likely know this word
tacit	understood without being openly expressed; implied	adjective	8	25-Most English speakers likely know this word
taciturn	inclined to silence; reserved in speech; reluctant to join in conversation.	adjective	13	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
tact	a keen sense of what to say or do to avoid giving offense; skill in dealing with difficult or delicate situations.	noun	7	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
tactile	of, pertaining to, endowed with, or affecting the sense of touch.	adjective	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
taint	a trace of something bad, offensive, or harmful.	noun	6	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
takeoff	a taking or setting off; the leaving of the ground, as in leaping or in beginning a flight in an airplane.	noun	17	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
talisman	a stone, ring, or other object, engraved with figures or characters supposed to possess occult powers and worn as an amulet or charm.	noun	13	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
talon	a claw, especially of a bird of prey.	noun	7	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
tan	to convert (a hide) into leather, especially by soaking or steeping in a bath prepared from 	verb (used with object)	4	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
tangential	pertaining to or of the nature of a 	adjective	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
tangible	capable of being touched; discernible by the touch; material or substantial.	adjective	15	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
tanner	a person whose occupation it is to 	noun	8	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
tantalize	to torment with, or as if with, the sight of something desired but out of reach; tease by arousing expectations that are repeatedly disappointed.	verb (used with object)	20	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
tantamount	equivalent, as in value, force, effect, or signification	adjective	16	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
tantrum	a violent demonstration of rage or frustration; a sudden burst of ill temper.	noun	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
taper	to become smaller or thinner toward one end.	verb (used without object)	8	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
tarantula	any of several large, hairy spiders of the family Theraphosidae, as Aphonopelma chalcodes, of the southwestern U.S., having a painful but not highly venomous bite.	noun	12	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
tardy	late; behind time; not on time	adjective	8	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
tarnish	to dull the luster of (a metallic surface), especially by oxidation; discolor.	verb (used with object)	10	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
tarry	to remain or stay, as in a place; sojourn	verb (used without object)	7	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
tart	sharp to the taste; sour or acid	adjective	4	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
tatter	a torn piece hanging loose from the main part, as of a garment or flag.	noun	6	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
taunt	to reproach in a sarcastic, insulting, or jeering manner; mock.	verb (used with object)	7	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
taut	tightly drawn; tense; not slack.	adjective	5	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
tawdry	(of finery, trappings, etc.) gaudy; showy and cheap.	adjective	12	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
tawny	of a dark yellowish or dull yellowish-brown color.	adjective	11	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
taxonomist	the science or technique of classification.	noun	21	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
tedium	the quality or state of being wearisome; irksomeness; tediousness.	noun	11	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
teetotalism	the principle or practice of total abstinence from intoxicating drink.	noun	15	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
temerity	reckless boldness; rashness.	noun	13	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
temper	a particular state of mind or feelings.	noun	12	11-All English speakers likely know this word
temperament	the combination of mental, physical, and emotional traits of a person; natural predisposition.	noun	21	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
temperate	moderate or self-restrained; not extreme in opinion, statement, etc.	adjective	15	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
tempestuous	characterized by or subject to 	adjective	19	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
tempo	Music. relative rapidity or rate of movement, usually indicated by such terms as adagio, allegro, etc., or by reference to the metronome.	noun	11	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
temporal	of or relating to time.	adjective	15	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
temporize	to be indecisive or evasive to gain time or delay acting.	verb (used without object)	24	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
tenacious	holding fast; characterized by keeping a firm hold (often followed by of)	adjective	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
tenacity	the quality of being 	noun	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
tenancy	a holding, as of lands, by any kind of title; occupancy of land, a house, or the like, under a lease or on payment of rent; tenure.	noun	14	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
tenant	a person or group that rents and occupies land, a house, an office, or the like, from another for a period of time; lessee.	noun	8	8-All English speakers likely know this word
tend	to be disposed or inclined in action, operation, or effect to do something	verb (used without object)	6	6-All English speakers likely know this word
tendentious	having or showing a definite 	adjective	15	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
tender	soft or delicate in substance; not hard or tough	adjective	8	6-All English speakers likely know this word
tenet	any opinion, principle, doctrine, dogma, etc., especially one held as true by members of a profession, group, or movement.	noun	6	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
tensile	of or relating to tension	adjective	9	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
tension	the act of stretching or straining.	noun	9	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
tentative	of the nature of or made or done as a trial, experiment, or attempt; experimental	adjective	14	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
tenuous	thin or slender in form, as a thread.	adjective	10	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
tenure	the holding or possessing of anything	noun	8	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
tepid	moderately warm; lukewarm	adjective	9	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
terminal	situated at or forming the end or extremity of something	adjective	13	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
termination	the act of 	noun	16	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
terminology	the system of terms belonging or peculiar to a science, art, or specialized subject; nomenclature	noun	20	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
terminus	the end or extremity of anything.	noun	13	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
terrestrial	pertaining to, consisting of, or representing the earth as distinct from other planets.	adjective	12	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
terse	neatly or effectively concise; brief and pithy, as language.	adjective	5	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
tertiary	of the third order, rank, stage, formation, etc.; third.	adjective	10	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
tessellated	of, relating to, or like a mosaic.	adjective	14	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
testator	a person who makes a will.	noun	8	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
testy	irritably impatient; touchy.	adjective	7	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
tether	a rope, chain, or the like, by which an animal is fastened to a fixed object so as to limit its range of movement.	noun	8	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
thematic	of or relating to a theme.	adjective	16	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
theocracy	a form of government in which God or a deity is recognized as the supreme civil ruler, the God's or deity's laws being interpreted by the ecclesiastical authorities.	noun	19	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
theoretical	of, relating to, or consisting in 	adjective	17	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
therapeutic	of or relating to the treating or curing of disease; curative.	adjective	20	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
thermal	Also, 	adjective	13	8-All English speakers likely know this word
thesis	a proposition stated or put forward for consideration, especially one to be discussed and proved or to be maintained against objections	noun	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
thespian	(often lowercase) pertaining to tragedy or to the dramatic art in general.	adjective	14	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
thrall	a person who is in bondage; slave.	noun	10	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
thrash	to beat soundly in punishment; flog.	verb (used with object)	10	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
threadbare	having the nap worn off so as to lay bare the threads of the warp and woof, as a fabric, garment, etc.	adjective	16	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
threat	a declaration of an intention or determination to inflict punishment, injury, etc., in retaliation for, or conditionally upon, some action or course; menace	noun	8	6-All English speakers likely know this word
thresh	to separate the grain or seeds from (a cereal plant or the like) by some mechanical means, as by beating with a flail or by the action of a 	verb (used with object)	10	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
thrifty	practicing 	adjective	14	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
thrive	to prosper; be fortunate or successful.	verb (used without object)	12	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
throb	to beat with increased force or rapidity, as the heart under the influence of emotion or excitement; palpitate.	verb (used without object)	10	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
throes	a violent spasm or pang; paroxysm.	noun	8	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
throng	a multitude of people crowded or assembled together; crowd.	noun	11	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
throttle	Also called 	noun	11	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
thwart	to oppose successfully; prevent from accomplishing a purpose.	verb (used with object)	11	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
tickle	to touch or stroke lightly with the fingers, a feather, etc., so as to excite a tingling or itching sensation in; titillate.	verb (used with object)	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
tightwad	a close-fisted or stingy person.	noun	16	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
tiller	a person who 	noun	8	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
timbre	Acoustics, Phonetics. the characteristic quality of a sound, independent of pitch and loudness, from which its source or manner of production can be inferred. Timbre depends on the relative strengths of the components of different frequencies, which are determined by resonance.	noun	12	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
timidity	lacking in self-assurance, courage, or bravery; easily alarmed; timorous; shy.	adjective	14	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
timorous	full of fear; fearful	adjective	12	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
tinge	to impart a trace or slight degree of some color to; tint.	verb (used with object)	8	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
tint	a color or a variety of a color; hue.	noun	5	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
tipple	to drink intoxicating liquor, especially habitually or to some excess.	verb (used without object)	13	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
tirade	a prolonged outburst of bitter, outspoken denunciation	noun	7	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
titanic	of or containing 	adjective	11	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
tithe	Sometimes, tithes. the tenth part of agricultural produce or personal income set apart as an offering to God or for works of mercy, or the same amount regarded as an obligation or tax for the support of the church, priesthood, or the like.	noun	7	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
titillate	to excite or arouse agreeably	verb (used with object)	11	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
title	the distinguishing name of a book, poem, picture, piece of music, or the like.	noun	6	7-All English speakers likely know this word
titter	to laugh in a restrained, self-conscious, or affected way, as from nervousness or in ill-suppressed amusement.	verb (used without object)	6	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
titular	existing or being such in 	adjective	9	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
toady	an obsequious flatterer; sycophant.	noun	8	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
toga	(in ancient Rome) the loose outer garment worn by citizens in public.	noun	6	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
token	something serving to represent or indicate some fact, event, feeling, etc.; sign	noun	10	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
toll	a payment or fee exacted by the state, the local authorities, etc., for some right or privilege, as for passage along a road or over a bridge.	noun	6	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
tome	a book, especially a very heavy, large, or learned book.	noun	7	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
tonsure	the act of cutting the hair or shaving the head.	noun	9	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
topography	the detailed mapping or charting of the features of a relatively small area, district, or locality.	noun	22	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
topple	to fall forward, as from having too heavy a top; pitch; tumble down.	verb (used without object)	13	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
torpedo	a self-propelled, cigar-shaped missile containing explosives and often equipped with a homing device, launched from a submarine or other warship, for destroying surface vessels or other submarines.	noun	11	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
torpor	sluggish inactivity or inertia.	noun	9	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
torque	Mechanics. something that produces or tends to produce torsion or rotation; the moment of a force or system of forces tending to cause rotation.	noun	16	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
torrent	a stream of water flowing with great rapidity and violence.	noun	8	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
torrid	subject to parching or burning heat, especially of the sun, as a geographical area	adjective	7	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
torso	the trunk of the human body.	noun	5	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
tortuous	full of twists, turns, or bends; twisting, winding, or crooked	adjective	10	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
toss	to throw, pitch, or fling, especially to throw lightly or carelessly	verb (used with object)	4	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
totem	a natural object or an animate being, as an animal or bird, assumed as the emblem of a clan, family, or group.	noun	8	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
totter	to walk or go with faltering steps, as if from extreme weakness.	verb (used without object)	6	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
touching	affecting; moving; pathetic	adjective	17	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
touchstone	a test or criterion for the qualities of a thing.	noun	17	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
touchy	apt to take offense on slight provocation; irritable	adjective	14	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
tout	to solicit business, employment, votes, or the like, importunately.	verb (used without object)	5	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
toxic	of, pertaining to, affected with, or caused by a 	adjective	15	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
tract	an expanse or area of land, water, etc.; region; stretch.	noun	8	8-All English speakers likely know this word
tractable	easily managed or controlled; docile; yielding	adjective	16	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
traduce	to speak maliciously and falsely of; slander; defame	verb (used with object)	12	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
trajectory	the curve described by a projectile, rocket, or the like in its flight.	noun	24	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
tramp	to tread or walk with a firm, heavy, resounding step.	verb (used without object)	11	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
trample	to tread or step heavily and noisily; stamp.	verb (used without object)	14	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
trance	a half-conscious state, seemingly between sleeping and waking, in which ability to function voluntarily may be suspended.	noun	10	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
tranquillity	quality or state of being 	noun	27	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
transcendent	going beyond ordinary limits; surpassing; exceeding.	adjective	19	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
transcendental	transcendent, surpassing, or superior.	adjective	22	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
transcribe	to make a written copy, especially a typewritten copy, of (dictated material, notes taken during a lecture, or other spoken material).	verb (used with object)	17	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
transgression	an act of 	noun	17	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
transient	not lasting, enduring, or permanent; transitory.	adjective	11	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
transition	movement, passage, or change from one position, state, stage, subject, concept, etc., to another; change	noun	12	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
transitory	not lasting, enduring, permanent, or eternal.	adjective	13	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
translucent	permitting light to pass through but diffusing it so that persons, objects, etc., on the opposite side are not clearly visible	adjective	18	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
transmute	to change from one nature, substance, form, or condition into another; transform.	verb (used with object), verb (used without object)	14	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
transparent	having the property of transmitting rays of light through its substance so that bodies situated beyond or behind can be distinctly seen.	adjective	16	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
transpire	to occur; happen; take place.	verb (used without object)	13	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
transport	to carry, move, or convey from one place to another.	verb (used with object)	13	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
transpose	to change the relative position, order, or sequence of; cause to change places; interchange	verb (used with object)	13	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
trappings	articles of equipment or dress, especially of an ornamental character.	noun	18	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
traumatic	of, relating to, or produced by a 	adjective	16	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
travail	painfully difficult or burdensome work; toil.	noun	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
traverse	to pass or move over, along, or through.	verb (used with object)	12	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
travesty	a literary or artistic burlesque of a serious work or subject, characterized by grotesque or ludicrous incongruity of style, treatment, or subject matter.	noun	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
tread	to set down the foot or feet in walking; step; walk.	verb (used without object)	6	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
treasure	wealth or riches stored or accumulated, especially in the form of precious metals, money, jewels, or plate.	noun	9	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
treatise	a formal and systematic exposition in writing of the principles of a subject, generally longer and more detailed than an essay.	noun	8	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
trek	to travel or migrate, especially slowly or with difficulty.	verb (used without object)	8	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
tremor	involuntary shaking of the body or limbs, as from disease, fear, weakness, or excitement; a fit of trembling.	noun	9	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
tremulous	(of persons, the body, etc.) characterized by trembling, as from fear, nervousness, or weakness.	adjective	15	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
trenchant	incisive or keen, as language or a person; caustic; cutting	adjective	16	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
trepidation	tremulous fear, alarm, or agitation; perturbation.	noun	16	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
tribulation	grievous trouble; severe trial or suffering.	noun	17	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
tribunal	a court of justice.	noun	14	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
tribune	a person who upholds or defends the rights of the people.	noun	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
tribute	a gift, testimonial, compliment, or the like, given as due or in acknowledgment of gratitude or esteem.	noun	11	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
trickle	to flow or fall by drops, or in a small, gentle stream	verb (used without object)	15	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
trickster	a deceiver; cheat; fraud.	noun	16	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
trident	a three-pronged instrument or weapon.	noun	9	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
trifle	an article or thing of very little value.	noun	10	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
trifling	of very little importance; trivial; insignificant	adjective	15	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
trigger	a small projecting tongue in a firearm that, when pressed by the finger, actuates the mechanism that discharges the weapon.	noun	11	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
trilogy	a series or group of three plays, novels, operas, etc., that, although individually complete, are closely related in theme, sequence, or the like.	noun	12	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
trim	to put into a neat or orderly condition by clipping, paring, pruning, etc.	verb (used with object)	7	9-All English speakers likely know this word
trinket	a small ornament, piece of jewelry, etc., usually of little value.	noun	12	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
trite	lacking in freshness or effectiveness because of constant use or excessive repetition; hackneyed; stale	adjective	5	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
trivia	matters or things that are very unimportant, inconsequential, or nonessential; trifles; trivialities.	plural noun	10	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
troth	faithfulness, fidelity, or loyalty	noun	7	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
trough	a long, narrow, open receptacle, usually boxlike in shape, used chiefly to hold water or food for animals.	noun	11	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
truculence	fierce; cruel; savagely brutal.	adjective	20	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
truism	a self-evident, obvious truth.	noun	10	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
truncate	to shorten by cutting off a part; cut short	verb (used with object)	13	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
trunk	the main stem of a tree, as distinct from the branches and roots.	noun	11	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
tryst	an appointment to meet at a certain time and place, especially one made somewhat secretly by lovers.	noun	7	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
tumid	swollen, or affected with swelling, as a part of the body.	adjective	10	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
tumult	violent and noisy commotion or disturbance of a crowd or mob; uproar	noun	12	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
tundra	one of the vast, nearly level, treeless plains of the arctic regions of Europe, Asia, and North America.	noun	9	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
turbid	not clear or transparent because of stirred-up sediment or the like; clouded; opaque; obscured	adjective	11	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
turbulence	the quality or state of being 	noun	20	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
tureen	a large, deep, covered dish for serving soup, stew, or other foods.	noun	8	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
turgid	swollen; distended; tumid.	adjective	10	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
turmoil	a state of great commotion, confusion, or disturbance; tumult; agitation; disquiet	noun	12	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
turncoat	a person who changes to the opposite party or faction, reverses principles, etc.; renegade.	noun	13	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
turpitude	vile, shameful, or base character; depravity.	noun	15	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
tutelage	the act of guarding, protecting, or guiding; office or function of a guardian; guardianship.	noun	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
tutelary	having the position of guardian or protector of a person, place, or thing	adjective	12	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
tycoon	a person of great wealth, influence, or power; magnate	noun	12	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
typhoon	a tropical cyclone or hurricane of the western Pacific area and the China seas.	noun	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
tyranny	arbitrary or unrestrained exercise of power; despotic abuse of authority.  Synonyms	noun	13	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
tyro	a beginner in learning anything; novice.	noun	6	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
ubiquitous	existing or being everywhere, especially at the same time; omnipresent	adjective	25	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
ulcer	Pathology. a sore on the skin or a mucous membrane, accompanied by the disintegration of tissue, the formation of pus, etc.	noun	10	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
ulterior	being beyond what is seen or avowed; intentionally kept concealed	adjective	10	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
ultimate	last; furthest or farthest; ending a process or series	adjective	13	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
ultimatum	a final, uncompromising demand or set of terms issued by a party to a dispute, the rejection of which may lead to a severance of relations or to the use of force.	noun	18	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
umbrage	offense; annoyance; displeasure	noun	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
unaccountable	impossible to account for; unexplained; inexplicable	adjective	27	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
unanimity	the state or quality of being 	noun	17	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
unassailable	not open to attack or assault, as by military force or argument	adjective	19	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
unassuaged	to make milder or less severe; relieve; ease; mitigate	verb (used with object)	16	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
unassuming	modest; unpretentious.	adjective	19	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
unbridled	not controlled or restrained	adjective	17	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
uncanny	having or seeming to have a supernatural or inexplicable basis; beyond the ordinary or normal; extraordinary	adjective	16	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
unceremonious	discourteously abrupt; hasty; rude	adjective	23	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
unconscionable	not guided by conscience; unscrupulous.	adjective	28	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
uncouth	awkward, clumsy, or unmannerly	adjective	15	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
unction	an act of anointing, especially as a medical treatment or religious rite.	noun	13	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
unctuous	characterized by excessive piousness or moralistic fervor, especially in an affected manner; excessively smooth, suave, or smug.	adjective	15	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
underhand	not open and aboveboard; secret and crafty or dishonorable	adjective	16	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
underlying	lying or situated beneath, as a substratum.	adjective	19	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
undermine	to injure or destroy by insidious activity or imperceptible stages, sometimes tending toward a sudden dramatic effect.	verb (used with object)	16	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
underscore	to mark with a line or lines underneath; underline, as for emphasis.	verb (used with object)	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
understate	to 	verb (used with object)	13	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
undertaker		noun	17	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
undulating	to move with a sinuous or wavelike motion; display a smooth rising-and-falling or side-to-side alternation of movement	verb (used without object)	18	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
unearth	to dig or get out of the earth; dig up.	verb (used with object)	11	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
unearthly	seeming not to belong to this earth or world	adjective	16	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
unequivocal	not 	adjective	31	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
unerringly	not 	adjective	18	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
unexceptionable	not offering any basis for exception or objection; beyond criticism	adjective	35	62-Few English speakers likely know this word
unfaltering	to hesitate or waver in action, purpose, intent, etc.; give way	verb (used without object)	20	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
unfeigned	not feigned; sincere; genuine.	adjective	18	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
unfetter	to release from fetters.	verb (used with object)	13	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
unfledged	not 	adjective	19	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
unfrock	to deprive (a monk, priest, minister, etc.) of ecclesiastical rank, authority, and function; depose.	verb (used with object)	19	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
ungainly	not graceful; awkward; unwieldy; clumsy	adjective	16	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
unguent	an ointment or salve, usually liquid or semiliquid, for application to wounds, sores, etc.	noun	13	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
uniformity	the state or quality of being 	noun	20	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
unilateral	relating to, occurring on, or involving one side only	adjective	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
unimpeachable	above suspicion; impossible to discredit; impeccable	adjective	30	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
uninhibited	not 	adjective	20	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
uninhibited	not 	adjective	20	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
unintimidating	to make timid; fill with fear.	verb (used with object)	0	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
unique	existing as the only one or as the sole example; single; solitary in type or characteristics	adjective	18	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
unison	coincidence in pitch of two or more musical tones, voices, etc.	noun	9	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
universal	of, relating to, or characteristic of all or the whole	adjective	16	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
unkempt	not combed	adjective	19	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
unmitigated	not mitigated; not softened or lessened	adjective	19	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
unobtrusive	not 	adjective	21	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
unprecedented	without previous instance; never before known or experienced; unexampled or unparalleled	adjective	24	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
unprepossessing	that impresses favorably; engaging or attractive	adjective	26	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
unravel	to separate or disentangle the threads of (a woven or knitted fabric, a rope, etc.).	verb (used with object)	14	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
unregenerate	not 	adjective	17	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
unrequited	not returned or reciprocated	adjective	23	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
unruly	not submissive or conforming to rule; ungovernable; turbulent; intractable; refractory; lawless	adjective	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
unsavory	not 	adjective	16	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
unscathed	not scathed; unharmed; uninjured	adjective	17	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
unseemly	not 	adjective	16	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
unsightly	distasteful or unpleasant to look at	adjective	18	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
untenable	incapable of being defended, as an argument, thesis, etc.; indefensible.	adjective	16	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
untoward	unfavorable or unfortunate	adjective	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
unwarranted	authorization, sanction, or justification.	noun	18	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
unwieldy	not wieldy; wielded with difficulty; not readily handled or managed in use or action, as from size, shape, or weight; awkward; ungainly.	adjective	17	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
unwitting	inadvertent; unintentional; accidental	adjective	17	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
unwonted	not customary or usual; rare	adjective	15	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
upbraid	to find fault with or reproach severely; censure	verb (used with object)	15	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
upright	erect or vertical, as in position or posture.	adjective	15	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
uproar	a state of violent and noisy disturbance, as of a multitude; turmoil.	noun	10	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
uproarious	characterized by or in a state of 	adjective	15	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
upshot	the final issue, the conclusion, or the result	noun	12	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
urbane	having the polish and suavity regarded as characteristic of sophisticated social life in major cities	adjective	11	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
urchin	a mischievous boy.	noun	13	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
urge	to push or force along; impel with force or vigor	verb (used with object)	7	6-All English speakers likely know this word
urgent	compelling or requiring immediate action or attention; imperative; pressing	adjective	10	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
ursine	of or relating to a bear or bears.	adjective	8	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
usage	a customary way of doing something; a custom or practice	noun	8	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
usurp	to seize and hold (a position, office, power, etc.) by force or without legal right	verb (used with object)	10	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
usury	the lending or practice of lending money at an exorbitant interest.	noun	9	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
utopia	an imaginary island described in Sir Thomas More's Utopia (1516) as enjoying perfection in law, politics, etc.	noun	10	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
uxorious	doting upon, foolishly fond of, or affectionately submissive toward one's wife.	adjective	17	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
vacillate	to waver in mind or opinion; be indecisive or irresolute	verb (used without object)	18	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
vacuous	without contents; empty	adjective	16	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
vagabond	wandering from place to place without any settled home; nomadic	adjective	19	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
vagary	an unpredictable or erratic action, occurrence, course, or instance	noun	14	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
vagrant	a person who wanders about idly and has no permanent home or employment; vagabond; tramp.	noun	14	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
vain	excessively proud of or concerned about one's own appearance, qualities, achievements, etc.; conceited	adjective	9	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
vainglorious	filled with or given to 	adjective	21	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
valediction	an act of bidding farewell or taking leave.	noun	21	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
valedictory	bidding goodbye; saying farewell	adjective	22	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
valid	sound; just; well-founded	adjective	11	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
validate	to make 	verb (used with object)	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
valor	boldness or determination in facing great danger, especially in battle; heroic courage; bravery	noun	10	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
vampire	a preternatural being, commonly believed to be a reanimated corpse, that is said to suck the blood of sleeping persons at night.	noun	17	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
vanguard	the foremost division or the front part of an army; advance guard; van.	noun	17	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
vantage	a position, condition, or place affording some 	noun	14	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
vapid	lacking or having lost life, sharpness, or flavor; insipid; flat	adjective	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
vaporize	to cause to change into 	verb (used with object)	24	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
variegate	to make varied in appearance, as by adding different colors.	verb (used with object)	15	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
variegated	varied in appearance or color; marked with patches or spots of different colors.	adjective	17	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
varnish	a preparation consisting of resinous matter, as copal or lac, dissolved in an oil (oil varnish) or in alcohol (spirit varnish) or other volatile liquid. When applied to the surface of wood, metal, etc., it dries and leaves a hard, more or less glossy, usually transparent coating.	noun	14	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
vassal	(in the feudal system) a person granted the use of land, in return for rendering homage, fealty, and usually military service or its equivalent to a lord or other superior; feudal tenant.	noun	11	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
vaunted	praised boastfully or excessively	adjective	14	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
veer	to change direction or turn about or aside; shift, turn, or change from one course, position, inclination, etc., to another	verb (used without object)	8	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
vegetate	to grow in, or as in, the manner of a plant.	verb (used without object)	14	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
vehement	zealous; ardent; impassioned	adjective	18	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
velocity	rapidity of motion or operation; swiftness; speed	noun	18	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
venal	willing to sell one's influence, especially in return for a bribe; open to bribery; mercenary	adjective	11	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
vendetta	a private feud in which the members of the family of a murdered person seek to avenge the murder by killing the slayer or one of the slayer's relatives, especially such vengeance as once practiced in Corsica and parts of Italy.	noun	14	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
vendor	a person or agency that sells.	noun	12	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
veneer	a thin layer of wood or other material for facing or inlaying wood.	noun	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
venerable	commanding respect because of great age or impressive dignity; worthy of 	adjective	18	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
venerate	to regard or treat with reverence; revere.	verb (used with object)	13	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
venial	able to be forgiven or pardoned; not seriously wrong, as a sin (opposed to 	adjective	12	27-Most English speakers likely know this word
venison	the flesh of a deer or similar animal as used for food.	noun	13	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
venom	the poisonous fluid that some animals, as certain snakes and spiders, secrete and introduce into the bodies of their victims by biting, stinging, etc.	noun	13	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
vent	an opening, as in a wall, serving as an outlet for air, smoke, fumes, or the like.	noun	9	12-Most English speakers likely know this word
ventilate	to provide (a room, mine, etc.) with fresh air in place of air that has been used or contaminated.	verb (used with object)	15	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
ventral	of or relating to the 	adjective	13	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
ventriloquist	a person who performs or is skilled in 	noun	29	64-Few English speakers likely know this word
venture	an undertaking involving uncertainty as to the outcome, especially a risky or dangerous one	noun	13	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
venturesome	having or showing a disposition to undertake risky or dangerous activities; daring	adjective	20	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
venue	Law.    the place of a crime or cause of action.    the county or place where the jury is gathered and the cause tried.    the designation, in the pleading, of the jurisdiction where a trial will be held.    the statement naming the place and person before whom an affidavit was sworn.  	noun	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
veracious	habitually speaking the truth; truthful; honest	adjective	17	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
veracity	habitual observance of truth in speech or statement; truthfulness	noun	17	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
verbalize	to express in words	verb (used with object)	26	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
verbatim	in exactly the same words; word for word	adverb	18	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
verbiage	overabundance or superfluity of words, as in writing or speech; wordiness; verbosity.	noun	17	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
verbose	characterized by the use of many or too many words; wordy	adjective	14	49-Some English speakers likely know this word
verdant	green with vegetation; covered with growing plants or grass	adjective	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
verdigris	a green or bluish patina formed on copper, brass, or bronze surfaces exposed to the atmosphere for long periods of time, consisting principally of basic copper sulfate.	noun	16	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
verge	the edge, rim, or margin of something	noun	11	13-Most English speakers likely know this word
verisimilar	having the appearance of truth; likely; probable	adjective	19	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
verisimilitude	the appearance or semblance of truth; likelihood; probability	noun	24	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
veritable	being truly or very much so	adjective	17	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
verity	the state or quality of being true; accordance with fact or reality	noun	12	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
vernacular	(of language) native or indigenous (opposed to 	adjective	20	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
vernal	of or relating to spring	adjective	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
versatile	capable of or adapted for turning easily from one to another of various tasks, fields of endeavor, etc.	adjective	14	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
vertebrate	having vertebrae; having a backbone or spinal column.	adjective	17	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
vertex	the highest point of something; apex; summit; top	noun	17	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
vertigo	a dizzying sensation of tilting within stable surroundings or of being in tilting or spinning surroundings.	noun	13	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
verve	enthusiasm or vigor, as in literary or artistic work; spirit	noun	13	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
vestige	a mark, trace, or visible evidence of something that is no longer present or in existence	noun	13	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
veto	the power or right vested in one branch of a government to cancel or postpone the decisions, enactments, etc., of another branch, especially the right of a president, governor, or other chief executive to reject bills passed by the legislature.	noun	8	9-All English speakers likely know this word
vex	to irritate; annoy; provoke	verb (used with object)	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
viable	capable of living.	adjective	14	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
viand	an article of food.	noun	11	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
vibrant	moving to and fro rapidly; 	adjective	15	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
vicar	Church of England.    a person acting as priest of a parish in place of the rector, or as representative of a religious community to which tithes belong.    the priest of a parish the tithes of which are impropriated and who receives only the smaller tithes or a salary.  	noun	12	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
vicarious	performed, exercised, received, or suffered in place of another	adjective	17	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
vicissitude	a change or variation occurring in the course of something.	noun	20	59-Few English speakers likely know this word
victuals	victuals, food supplies; provisions.	noun	17	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
vie	to strive in competition or rivalry with another; contend for superiority	verb (used without object)	7	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
vigil	wakefulness maintained for any reason during the normal hours for sleeping.	noun	12	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
vigilant	keenly watchful to detect danger; wary	adjective	16	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
vigilante	a member of a vigilance committee.	noun	17	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
vignette	a decorative design or small illustration used on the title page of a book or at the beginning or end of a chapter.	noun	15	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
vigor	active strength or force.	noun	11	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
vile	wretchedly bad	adjective	9	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
vilify	to speak ill of; defame; slander.	verb (used with object)	16	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
vindicate	to clear, as from an accusation, imputation, suspicion, or the like	verb (used with object)	18	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
vindictive	disposed or inclined to revenge; vengeful	adjective	23	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
vintner	a person who makes wine or sells wines.	noun	13	51-Few English speakers likely know this word
violate	to break, infringe, or transgress (a law, rule, agreement, promise, instructions, etc.).	verb (used with object)	12	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
viper	any of several venomous Old World snakes of the genus Vipera, especially V. berus, a small snake common in northern Eurasia.	noun	12	22-Most English speakers likely know this word
virile	of, pertaining to, characteristic of, or befitting a man; masculine; manly	adjective	11	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
virtual	being such in power, force, or effect, though not actually or expressly such	adjective	13	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
virtue	moral excellence; goodness; righteousness.	noun	11	17-Most English speakers likely know this word
virtuoso	a person who has special knowledge or skill in a field.	noun	13	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
virulent	actively poisonous; intensely noxious	adjective	15	34-Many English speakers likely know this word
virus	an ultramicroscopic (20 to 300 nm in diameter), metabolically inert, infectious agent that replicates only within the cells of living hosts, mainly bacteria, plants, and animals	noun	10	5-All English speakers likely know this word
visage	the face, usually with reference to shape, features, expression, etc.; countenance.	noun	12	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
visceral	of or relating to the 	adjective	16	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
viscid	having a glutinous consistency; sticky; adhesive; viscous.	adjective	14	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
viscous	of a glutinous nature or consistency; sticky; thick; adhesive.	adjective	15	16-Most English speakers likely know this word
vise	any of various devices, usually having two jaws that may be brought together or separated by means of a screw, lever, or the like, used to hold an object firmly while work is being done on it.	noun	8	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
vision	the act or power of sensing with the eyes; sight.	noun	11	5-All English speakers likely know this word
visionary	given to or characterized by fanciful, not presently workable, or unpractical ideas, views, or schemes	adjective	16	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
vital	of or relating to life	adjective	10	19-Most English speakers likely know this word
vitiate	to impair the quality of; make faulty; spoil.	verb (used with object)	11	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
vitreous	of the nature of or resembling glass, as in transparency, brittleness, hardness, glossiness, etc.	adjective	13	15-Most English speakers likely know this word
vitriolic	of, relating to, or resembling 	adjective	17	55-Few English speakers likely know this word
vituperative	characterized by or of the nature of vituperation	adjective	24	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
vivacious	lively; animated; gay	adjective	21	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
vivid	strikingly bright or intense, as color, light, etc.	adjective	14	23-Most English speakers likely know this word
vivisection	the action of cutting into or dissecting a living body.	noun	23	54-Few English speakers likely know this word
vixen	a female fox.	noun	17	52-Few English speakers likely know this word
vociferous	crying out noisily; clamorous.	adjective	21	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
vogue	something in fashion, as at a particular time	noun	12	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
volatile	evaporating rapidly; passing off readily in the form of vapor	adjective	14	18-Most English speakers likely know this word
volition	the act of willing, choosing, or resolving; exercise of willing	noun	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
volley	the simultaneous discharge of a number of missiles or firearms.	noun	14	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
voluble	characterized by a ready and continuous flow of words; fluent; glib; talkative	adjective	17	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
voluminous	forming, filling, or writing a large 	adjective	21	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
voluptuous	full of, characterized by, or ministering to indulgence in luxury, pleasure, and sensuous enjoyment	adjective	21	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
voodoo	Also, 	noun	11	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
voracious	craving or consuming large quantities of food	adjective	17	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
vortex	a whirling mass of water, especially one in which a force of suction operates, as a whirlpool.	noun	17	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
vouch	to support as being true, certain, reliable, etc. (usually followed by for)	verb (used without object)	15	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
vouchsafe	to grant or give, as by favor, graciousness, or condescension	verb (used with object)	22	61-Few English speakers likely know this word
voyeur	a person who engages in 	noun	13	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
vulgar	characterized by ignorance of or lack of good breeding or taste	adjective	14	31-Many English speakers likely know this word
vulnerable	capable of or susceptible to being wounded or hurt, as by a weapon	adjective	21	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
vulpine	of or resembling a fox.	adjective	17	58-Few English speakers likely know this word
vulture	any of several large, primarily carrion-eating Old World birds of prey of the family Accipitridae, often having a naked head and less powerful feet than those of the related hawks and eagles.	noun	14	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
vying	competing; contending	adjective	14	41-Some English speakers likely know this word
wade	to walk in water, when partially immersed	verb (used without object)	8	38-Many English speakers likely know this word
waffle	a batter cake with a pattern of deep indentations on each side, formed by the gridlike design on each of the two hinged parts of the metal appliance (waffle iron) in which the cake is baked.	noun	16	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
waft	to carry lightly and smoothly through the air or over water	verb (used with object)	10	42-Some English speakers likely know this word
wag	to move from side to side, forward and backward, or up and down, especially rapidly and repeatedly	verb (used with object)	8	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
wage	Often, wages. money that is paid or received for work or services, as by the hour, day, or week.  Compare  	noun	9	35-Many English speakers likely know this word
waggish	like a 	adjective	16	57-Few English speakers likely know this word
waif	a person, especially a child, who has no home or friends.	noun	10	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
waive	to refrain from claiming or insisting on; give up; forgo	verb (used with object)	12	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
wake	to become roused from sleep; awake; awaken; waken (often followed by up).	verb (used without object)	11	14-Most English speakers likely know this word
wallow	to roll about or lie in water, snow, mud, dust, or the like, as for refreshment	verb (used without object)	14	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
wan	of an unnatural or sickly pallor; pallid; lacking color	adjective	7	33-Many English speakers likely know this word
wanderlust	a strong, innate desire to rove or travel about.	noun	17	56-Few English speakers likely know this word
wane	to decrease in strength, intensity, etc.	verb (used without object)	8	36-Many English speakers likely know this word
wangle	to bring about, accomplish, or obtain by scheming or underhand methods	verb (used with object)	13	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
wanton	done, shown, used, etc., maliciously or unjustifiably	adjective	11	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
warble	to sing or whistle with trills, quavers, or melodic embellishments	verb (used without object)	13	32-Many English speakers likely know this word
ward	a division or district of a city or town, as for administrative or political purposes.	noun	8	24-Most English speakers likely know this word
warp	to bend or twist out of shape, especially from a straight or flat form, as timbers or flooring.	verb (used with object)	10	10-All English speakers likely know this word
warrant	authorization, sanction, or justification.	noun	11	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
warranted	authorization, sanction, or justification.	noun	14	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
warranty	an act or an instance of warranting; assurance; authorization; warrant.	noun	14	26-Most English speakers likely know this word
warren	a place where rabbits breed or abound.	noun	10	43-Some English speakers likely know this word
wary	watchful; being on one's guard against danger.	adjective	9	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
wastrel	a wasteful person; spendthrift.	noun	11	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
waver	to sway to and fro; flutter	verb (used without object)	12	29-Most English speakers likely know this word
wax	Also called 	noun	13	5-All English speakers likely know this word
waylay	to intercept or attack from ambush, as in order to rob, seize, or slay.	verb (used with object)	14	48-Some English speakers likely know this word
wean	to accustom (a child or young animal) to food other than its mother's milk; cause to lose the need to suckle or turn to the mother for food.	verb (used with object)	8	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
weary	physically or mentally exhausted by hard work, exertion, strain, etc.; fatigued; tired	adjective	10	21-Most English speakers likely know this word
weather	the state of the atmosphere with respect to wind, temperature, cloudiness, moisture, pressure, etc.	noun	12	8-All English speakers likely know this word
weird	involving or suggesting the supernatural; unearthly or uncanny	adjective	9	45-Some English speakers likely know this word
well-bred	well brought up; properly trained and educated	adjective	9	67-Few English speakers likely know this word
welt	a ridge or wale on the surface of the body, as from a blow of a stick or whip.	noun	8	40-Some English speakers likely know this word
welter	to roll, toss, or heave, as waves or the sea.	verb (used without object)	10	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
welter	to roll, toss, or heave, as waves or the sea.	verb (used without object)	10	28-Most English speakers likely know this word
wheedle	to endeavor to influence (a person) by smooth, flattering, or beguiling words or acts	verb (used with object)	14	46-Some English speakers likely know this word
whelp	the young of the dog, or of the wolf, bear, lion, tiger, seal, etc.	noun	14	50-Some English speakers likely know this word
whine	to utter a low, usually nasal, complaining cry or sound, as from uneasiness, discontent, peevishness, etc.	verb (used without object)	11	20-Most English speakers likely know this word
wholesome	conducive to moral or general well-being; salutary; beneficial	adjective	18	47-Some English speakers likely know this word
wiggle	to move or go with short, quick, irregular movements from side to side	verb (used without object)	14	44-Some English speakers likely know this word
willowy	pliant; lithe.	adjective	17	53-Few English speakers likely know this word
wretch	a deplorably unfortunate or unhappy person.	noun	14	39-Some English speakers likely know this word
wring	to twist forcibly	verb (used with object)	11	37-Many English speakers likely know this word
wrinkle	a small furrow or crease in the skin, especially of the face, as from aging or frowning.	noun	16	30-Most English speakers likely know this word
wrongheaded		adjective	21	60-Few English speakers likely know this word
>>>>>>> 66a00b911a5b744cc9b9d7f1cdb83791694e45e1
zest	keen relish; hearty enjoyment; gusto.	noun	13	26-Most English speakers likely know this word